Habits
----
How to Build Systems (with AI) to ACTUALLY Achieve Your Goals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y5jL8KsUwaI&t=648s
Did you know you can achieve any goal by building systems that use the power of AI? Because I'm here to tell you, you really can balance work, health, relationships, personal growth without burning out. I know this firsthand. I went from broke at 24 to hitting every goal I set for myself and more by building systems that made it easy. AI has made creating these kind of systems easier than ever before. So today, I'm going to show you how to use the power of AI to build those same systems for yourself so you can stop relying on willpower and brute force and instead make it almost effortless to hit any goal you've ever wanted to achieve. So let's get into this. The first thing is you have to think in systems, not just goals. Every person has the same goals, make more money. The person with the system has a higher probability of hitting that goal if they actually sat down to figure it out. systems take over when willpower and motivation go away. A system for me is a process that's repeatable that I can execute, look at the feedback and the results it gave me and then use that to improve the system. If you want to be successful, it's not like you have to grind harder. You have to build systems that grind for you. Systems is an acronym. It stands for save yourself time, energy, money, and stress. You have to think in systems to achieve your goals, not just have a goal. But before anything else, you need to know exactly where you're going. That's why you need number two, clarify your goals. AI can't help you if your goals aren't clear. How are you supposed to hit a target you can't see? Saying, make me more successful, it's going to say, what area? Tell me more. The truth is is most people don't know what their 5-year goals are. I interview literally dozens of people every month. And one of my questions I ask them is in 5 years you wake up, you wave a magic wand, you can have anything. Pay me a picture of your life. And they always say, "That's a great question. Nobody's ever asked me that before." H okay. Well, if we don't know what the future looks like, then we can't make decisions in the short term because we don't know how they align. Clarity equals acceleration. If you want to accelerate your life, get clear on your 5-year goals. My favorite example of this is Gary Vee. If you don't know who he is, Gary Vaynerchuk, Google him. Every person knows his goal. His number one goal in life is to buy the New York Jets. Now, he's been saying this since he was in his 20s when buying a multi-billion dollar sports team made no sense to anybody around him. Why? Because he wanted to have clarity around his direction. It became his north star. That's the power of clarity. Not only does it align your actions, it even enrolls strangers, your audience on social media, to support you in achieving of that goal. I have zero doubt Gary's going to achieve it because he has clarity around what it is. If you don't know where you're going, then any path will do, which means you might get way off track only to find out that you're 10 miles off base when you could have been 20 m ahead of goal. So, if you're not 100% clear on where you're headed, here's how you can fix this in three easy steps. First, we need to tell Chad GBT. Just ask it. Help me define a 5-year smart goal, specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timebound. Ask me clarifying questions. If you post that into Chad GBT, it will start asking you questions to get clarity for it to help you. Next, we have to answer every question. My favorite way to do this is use voice to text. In the Chad GBT interface, you just click the little icon for the voice and just talk to it and ramble. Next, we have to refine by going back and forth until the goals it's suggesting clicks with your soul. If I look at something and I'm like anxious but excited, usually a good path. Often times my anxiety around a goal that I'm excited about means I have to do it. If something else I see that and I'm like that's not for me. Give yourself permission to pass. Where people mess this up is they think they have to be perfect. They think they have to be right. And I'm telling you, the good news is you don't have to be right. You just have to have a direction. So even if you're like, I'm not sure 100%. That's okay. If it speaks to you a little bit and it feels good, just use that for now. You can always adjust in the future. And remember, make sure it's a smart goal, specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time bound. If you do this, then you have clarity. If you don't, you just have vaguess, and you can't hit a target you can't see. If you want to take this another level from a planning point of view to make it super simple, you can click the link in the description and I'll give you my one-page preloaded year where you take your 5-year goals and then you put it in that one page so you have clarity around what you should be doing with the next 12 months of your life. It is so simple and easy and will give you massive clarity that if you show it to anybody, they're going to think you're a freaking genius for doing this. And it's my gift to you. Once AI helps you get clear goals, the next step is making them unforgettable. Which brings us to step three. Turn your goals into a vision board. Your brain doesn't think in words. It thinks in pictures. Just imagine a really fat elephant sitting on a red chair. Gotcha. If we can give it a very clear image of what we want our life to look like, the goals we want to accomplish as if we've already done it, then it will act like a heat seeeking missile to go find opportunities to make that happen. That's why we need a vision board. Everybody on my team, I have them outline their vision for their life, specific things like the car they want, the house they want, the achievements they want to achieve, and I have them add it to the wallpaper on their phone. My favorite story is Sam, my creative director, because for four or five years, he had a white Porsche GT4 on his phone. So, my wife and I decided to buy him his dream car. I just want to play for you that moment cuz it like touched me on a level I didn't expect at the time. Yes. Oh, wow. Yeah. Sounds This is your little track car. Basically the GT2 but little bit compact. Isn't this the one you have on your phone screen? Yep. in white. Yeah. Shut up. Show me your phone. Same what? It's the Cayman, too. My other team. You know, Sam, how long What were you saying? 5 years you've been with me. Yeah. 6 years. It's been a while. You know what's crazy? You know what's crazy about this guy? He puts everybody else first. He would never do this for himself. That's what I did. I love you guys. Yep. It's all insured and ready for you to drive away. Man, I remember after I did that to Sam, every person at the company started going like, "Hey, look at my dream car. Look at my dream car." I'm like, "You should figure out who Sam is to understand why I bought him that car." But when you visualize your goals, then it makes it so much more realistic and your mind will help you have the conversations to make them come true. None of that would have been possible without him having a vision. That was a vision board for his life and looking at it literally hundreds of times a day. I don't believe we create our future. I think we attract our future by doing three things. Having 100% clarity, 100% belief 100% of the time. To the degree you do those three things all the time, you will pull that future into your life. With AI, creating a vision board has never been easier. First, just take your five-year goal and make it 4D. You need to like give it some dimension, some pep, some color, like really amp it up. Next, we asked Chad GPT, help me describe this goal with sight, sound, color, smells, details of what life would look like when I've achieved it. If you want to take it to another level, make it photo realistic as much as you can to the age you'll be. Then next, we have to have Chad GBT format the description so that you can plug it into a tool. So you ask it to create a visual prompt that you could use for whatever tool you want to visualize and ask it to write the prompt that's going to create that. Next, we use Midjourney, Canva, Gemini, Sora, whatever tool of choice from AI image generation you want to use and then paste that prompt into it to create the vision board. Once you have it, have it formatted to whatever place you want to see it. So, if it's your phone, set it up as a wallpaper. If you want to print it off, make it high def so you can print it off. Put it on your wall. Put it underneath the mirror in the bathroom so you see it all the time. Just make sure that you look at it as if you're in that place. Like really like close your eyes and get into the energy and feel it. That's what brings it to life. Your frequency and energy of belief is what you frequently see. So if you believe it, it will start to bring opportunities, ideas, conversations, and just magically get your fingers to do things at the right time that all of a sudden people will call it luck. But you know, it's cuz you kept your mind focused on the right thing like a heat-seeking missile. Now, all this is awesome, but without structure, it's essentially worthless. So if you actually want to achieve your goals, you need AI to build a clear road map, which takes us to step number four, creating an AI road map. To achieve any goal, you need to know the steps to get you there. The plan. Sequencing equals success. You can have the same ingredients and a completely different recipe. One person gets a beautiful chocolate cake. The other person following a different recipe creates a big pile of mush. Why? They did the right things in the wrong order. AI will help you build a plan so you don't waste your time. And the cool part is AI can translate that five-year vision that you know you want to achieve and break it down into yearly, quarterly, monthly, and even weekly milestones for you to calibrate to know if you're on track. For example, when I started doing Iron Man's, I was overwhelmed by the distance the race was going to require. I mean, it's wild. The swim almost kills me. Then I get on the bike, power through the bike, but problem is then I burn a bunch of match sticks, so I don't have any energy left for the run. Then I jump into the marathon. I'm already four hours into this thing and now I got to go run 26 miles. But what I decided to do is instead of focusing on the 26 miles, I focused on the next telephone pole. And I made a commitment that I'm just going to get to the next telephone pole and then I'm going to make a decision if I want to keep running. And because I broke it down into telephone pole runs instead of a marathon, it was way more approachable. And that's the power of step by step. So the cool part is AI is going to help you answer the question of what's your next telephone poll. Here's how we do it. So, first ask AI turn my 5-year goal into a year-by-year plan and ask it to include milestones. So, that way you can calibrate and to know if you're on track. Next, we want to take the current year and break it down into quarters every 3 months and do the same thing. Give me some milestones so I know that I'm on track. Next, guess what we're going to do? Ask it to take that quarterly goal and break it down into two or three rocks or projects so that you can focus on the biggest lever points to achieve your goal. And then finally at the end of the year, repeat that process for the next year and the next year and the next year. And the best part, you can be as specific as you want. If you want it to take the quarterly goals to the monthly goals to the weekly goals to the daily goals and create a spreadsheet, just ask it. Whatever you need for yourself, you can ask it to create the plan, then create the import file that you can then download from AI and import into the tool of choice to track your progress. Now with steps and the milestones in place, it's kind of cool. Next, we have to use AI to integrate them into your daily schedule. Number five, automate and integrate. The best way to think about it is goals only stick when they live inside your day-to-day. I call those standards. If I can design a standard that I follow every day that makes my goal inevitable, then I have a system that's going to get the results. So, what we want to do is use AI to plug your big goals into the routines and tools that you already use. You can ask it to take all of your goals and your milestones, create to-dos that you have to check off every day, and then create the file that you can import so that it gets integrated into your software. Like for example, I use AI to monitor my inbox to look at my goals, to monitor the reports I get from my investment portfolios and my CEOs. And if anybody misses anything, it sends me a message letting me know that, hey, it's Monday and Friday. You didn't get what you needed by these people. Do you want me to message it? Yes, please. It messages those people. Why? I built this system for my goals that have other people as dependent. And then that way it can monitor for me so I don't have to think about it. I just created it once and then it runs forever. AI is like a multiplier. The people who learn to use it will get 10x their output. The people who don't will literally get left behind. The easiest way to integrate AI into your systems is 100% through your calendar. The first thing we want to do is ask AI, I recommend Chad GPT, but you can use Gemini, doesn't matter, to look at your calendar this week. So, you either integrate it or you take a screenshot and then ask it to suggest three reoccurring time slots that you can use to consistently have work to push those rocks forward. So, you're asking it to define the reoccurring calendar blocks for you to do the work that's going to make the goal an outcome. Now, if you're in Gemini, since it's a Google product, and if you're using Google calendar, you can actually say in chat, book these three blocks into my calendar every week for the next quarter, two hours each. And you can do this with Chad GPT, too. Next, at the start of every week, I want you to ask ChatGpt to scan your calendar and shift any of your focus blocks if they clash with other meetings and suggest best alternatives. So, have it manage your calendar for you. That's the pro move. Now, these hacks are freaking great, but they only go so far. AI can also fix deeper problems holding you back from achieving your goals. Number six is the upgrade loop. Once you get your systems running, the next step is to upgrade. Moving from the short-term fixes of building these systems to long-term solutions. Early on, when we try to just start being more productive, we'll do things like, you know, timers and hacks and quick fixes, nicotine, EDM music with no vocals to try to like be focused. Those are all great, but they're external. What we want to do is move them internal so that you become the identity of who you are is someone who can produce, who can achieve goals. The whole point of having a goal is not actually achieving the goal. It's the person you become in the pursuit of the goal. But if we don't focus on the upgrade loop for ourselves, then we're always going to be at the mercy of these hacks and systems. So imagine if you can't be healthy unless you have like the compression socks and the freaking dialed in meals and macros and like your perfect bed sleep with like the cool chili pad and all that stuff and then you go and you want to travel the world for a year like I'm doing with my family. So what does that mean? I can't be healthy and then all of a sudden I can't sleep well or I can't recover from a workout. No. I've upgraded my identity, my mind to become the person who is healthy. I don't need the hacks anymore. This upgrade loop will help you turn the short-term patches into long-term habits. So, for example, when I wanted to really dial in waking up earlier, I set an alarm clock for when I went to bed. See, a lot of people see me get up at 4 or 5:00 in the morning. They're like, "Oh my god, what time do you go to sleep?" 9:00 p.m. It's not that impressive. But because I've built that habit over the last decade, now I don't even need an alarm clock, not only to go to bed, but even wake up. It's just naturally who I am because I've built that into my identity, my habits. The people that have achieved their goals at the highest level, the wealthiest people, the fittest people, the most successful people, they think in decades, not days. They're not trying to upgrade for the next week. They're trying to upgrade who they are. See, when you're willing to sacrifice the short term for the long term, that's when the big stuff happens. First, we have to identify the patches in your systems. like where have you built these like reminders or hacks or shortcuts that are needed for you to even accomplish something? Again, look at your dependencies, your vices, your routines. Some people like they can't even be productive if they don't have a morning routine that lasts 3 hours. That's up. Challenge yourself on the 3-hour morning routine and go, what would happen? Curious if you got up and you just worked. Is it really that impossible? That might be the biggest upgrade ever. Second is we have to ask AI. List the possible root causes for my low energy. If your hack is you have low energy, so you have to drink a bunch of caffeine in the morning, then maybe there's something else that's a precursor to your low energy that AI can give you some ideas around. It could be your nutrition, could be the way you're sleeping. You might have these hacks that you're doing to be productive that you've gotten used to that you can actually use to replace to get better at. Next, I want you to ask the AI to suggest replacements to take the patches and replace them with habits. So instead of energy drinks in the morning, maybe it's going to suggest that you improve your sleep and nutrition. Instead of a Pomodoro timer, maybe it's going to train me to focus on endurance in the morning, which is what I do now. Exhaust the body, tame the mind. The cool part is you keep upgrading slowly and you let the system evolve you, your identity, and who you've become. So my question to you is, what are you pretending not to know? Because when AI can solve any problem you can give it, then the problem to solve is figure out what problem you want to solve. right now. Figure out what you want your life to look like in five years. Crystal clarity. Break it down. Have a plan. One year, quarterly, monthly. Build the systems. Integrated into who you are and that's how you'll achieve it. Now remember, if you want my preloaded year template, just click the link in the description below and I'll send it to you. It will change the way you look at your time. Now, if you want to learn about a Chad GBT feature that no one uses, click here and I'll see you on the other

----
Everything I Learned at MIT (That Made Me a Multimillionaire)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrTKDJPyfU0&t=206s
Today, I'm going to share every single thing I learned at MIT that made me become a multi-millionaire. I've been the CEO, board member, investor at tech companies that created billions of dollars in value. And this success is due to five principles I learned at MIT that shaped how I work, learn, make decisions under pressure. So, if you want to shortcut $350,000 of tuition, and learn how the top 1% elite thinkers operate, let's dive in. The first framework I learned at MIT didn't come from classrooms. It came from pranks. One day in 1994, MIT students and the city of Boston woke up to a police car siren echoing from the top of the MIT's great dome. And when he looked up, there was a full-size police car sitting up there on top of the dome. And when the campus security rushed to the top of the dome, they found a mannequin dressed as a fake cop and a box of real donuts in the backseat of the car. And the surprising fact was that the student hackers had not lifted the car to the top. It was an engineering masterpiece. They had built it up. They had assembled it up there piece by piece all through the night without getting caught. They use fiberglass, steel framing, other materials, and they had made sure that the car would stay perfectly steady because they had to calculate the dome's exact curvature. There was not a single scratch on this structure. Total precision. And that wasn't the last time the dome got hacked. A few years later, it turned into R2-D2. Perfect colors, Star Wars theme playing and all. Another year, I remembered the dome was transformed into Captain America's shield, 28 ft across, perfectly centered to the inch. Same mix of genius and mischief. That's the magic of MIT. Engineering precision with a tinge of light-hearted humor. These MIT hacks are legendary and they started from 1950s. You know, they represent a mindset. understand the system so deeply you can have fun with it without breaking it and you have to pull it off without anyone knowing about it. To this day, no one knows which students were involved and MIT authorities never hunt down the student hackers because the hack is never seen as a mean-spirited rebellion. It's about respectful rulebreaking. Smart doesn't have to be serious. Smart doesn't have to be stressful. As Clint Eastwood once said, I take my work seriously, but I don't take myself seriously because the moment you lose your sense of play, you lose your creativity. So, how do you use this principle in real life? First, start acting like a hacker, not like a hammer. Understand the system deeply before you can fight it, before you can change it, before you can improve it. And second, don't forget to have fun while you're doing it. You want your sense of innovation and sanity to survive in this world. The second principle I learned at MIT is that doing more isn't the goal. And MIT has a brutal way of making sure you learn it. The fire hose test. From the first week of the semester, they turn on the fire hose. three problem sets, two lab reports, a research paper, and a career fair all in the same day. Google is on campus, a Nobel Prize winner is giving a lecture, a great startup founder is hosting office hours, and somehow you're supposed to attend everything. And that's just your week one at MIT. By the end of that week, most students realize something very uncomfortable. you realize it is 2:00 a.m. at night and even if you decided to stay up for the next 72 hours, you still couldn't finish all the work. It is mathematically impossible. And that's when panic sets in. You lose your confidence because every single day, you're making impossible choices. And for the first time, you realize effort alone won't save you. Every choice you make is going to feel like a loss. But here's what I didn't see coming. The fire hose was never meant to be drunk from. I stopped asking how can I do everything and started asking what actually matters. That's the real point of the fire hose. MIT wasn't testing for capacity. It was testing for clarity. We all must learn how to decide and where to focus. You have to learn to choose. Not between good and bad, cuz that's an easy choice, but between valuable and more valuable. And that skill keeps everyone around you focused on the right thing. Years later, when I was CEO, I used to tell my team, when I look to my right, I see 50 things that are amazing about our company, and when I look to my left, there are 50 existential fires burning. So, what should we do? We look straight ahead and keep going. When you're building a company or building a product or managing your own life, the fire hose never shuts off. There's always more to do, more to chase, more to prove. If you don't build a filter, you'll mistake activity for progress. And when that happens, the fire hose will win. Here's how you pass the fire hose test. Ask three questions before you say yes to anything. I call it the three eye model. First eye, is it important? Will it matter a year from now? Second, is it impactful? Does it actually move the needle or is it just looking like busy work? And three, is it irreversible? If it breaks, can it be fixed later? Those three questions saved me when I was the CEO, and they will save you, too. The third principle is the secret behind every single grand invention in humanity's history. At MIT, every student faces an impossible challenge, and it's called the P set, short for problem set. Now, these problems aren't exercises that you can memorize or go through your class notes and figure out or look at the lectures or go to chat GPT. They are multi-step, open-ended, very complex challenges designed to test your reasoning, your creativity, and your endurance from day one. And they are hard. Some of those could take me 15 hours of work. I remember staring at a whiteboard for hours surrounded by failed attempts and empty coffee cups, thinking maybe I didn't belong there. But everyone feels the same way because MIT wants you to learn something very different. You don't want to just solve the problem. You want to learn how to look at them differently. Starting from the first principles. Instead of asking how do I solve this, you have to ask what do I truly know about this? What am I assuming? What haven't I tested? What pieces are still missing? Then you build up from there from the bottom and you bring all the pieces together one piece at a time. That mindset in the foundation of how every breakthrough in humanity has happened. Elon Musk didn't accept that the rockets have to cost $65 million. He broke the problem down to its first principles to raw materials, aluminum, titanium, carbon fiber. And you know what he discovered? the real cost was closer to about 2% of that. So he didn't just make rockets cheaper, he rebuilt the idea of a rocket from the ground up. I applied the same approach when I joined a large company as their chief operating officer a long time ago. We were hurdling forward with several different products. Resources were very tight. Products weren't shipping on time. Everyone was panicking. So what did we do? We stopped everything for 3 days not to brainstorm solutions but to deconstruct the problem itself. So we cut down from four product lines to one and then we launched that product very quickly to get a lot of feedback from customers and that approach worked wonderfully. We doubled our revenue in just 18 months not because we worked harder to find the solution or we were smarter but because we deconstructed the problem itself. Remember, every complex problem in your career, in your business, in your relationships can be broken down into small solvable parts. Here's your framework. Step one, write the problem down in a couple of lines. Step two, draw three columns, facts, assumptions, next step. Step three, pick one test. Run it this week. Because the real power of this approach is not in solving a specific problem. It's about writing how you think about all problems. The fourth principle has been my biggest competitive advantage in life and in business. It's called the mind and hand approach. That's the foundation of how you learn to learn fast. You're expected to build the thing you're thinking about. That's how you learn quickly. Every January, MIT pauses all classes for 4 weeks. It's called IAP, independent activities period. And during that month, there is only one rule. Build something real. When I was a student there, we built a startup called EMIT. It was meant to connect the venture capitalists to the entrepreneurs of MIT through a private online community network. Now, we didn't write any business plans. We just built the first version of the product and invited VCs and founders and entrepreneurs to just use it. And we ended up getting over 1,200 people to join and test it. Now, of course, some ideas worked, some did not. But that experience taught us more about startups than any textbook ever could. That's the spirit of mind and hand. You want clarity in your mind, then get your hands dirty. And this is exactly how it works in the real world, too. The founder of Dropbox lived the same principle. He wrote the first version of Dropbox on a Greyhound bus ride from Boston to San Francisco. No team, no funding, just a laptop and an idea. Now, of course, that first version did not work perfectly, but it worked well enough to test the concept and then build a company that's worth billions of dollars today. There's a saying at MIT and everybody believes in it. Nothing ever works the first time. You learn faster by failing forward than by waiting for the perfect plan. That's the mindset that turns musing into mastery. So, here's how you apply this. Number one, build the smallest version of your idea. Number two, get it in someone's hands this week. One user, one customer, one feedback, one honest review. That's all you need. And number three, rebuild based on what breaks. Let feedback and failure help you redraw the map. This works every time. The fifth principle I learned at MIT changed everything I thought I knew about success. And it's true. Not just in school, but in life. Everyone loves the myth of the lone genius. You know, the brilliant mind single-handedly changing the world from the mountaintop. But at MIT, you realize very quickly that it's exactly that, just a myth. There is even a saying on campus, you cannot graduate alone. because you really can't. You find two or three or four other students who are just as stuck and as sleepdeprived as you are and together you fight the common enemy, the oppression of MIT itself. And you know MIT knows about this and they love this idea because they know the shared struggle against the impossible builds unbreakable bonds. If you want to survive, you learn to trust others, to rely on others, to collaborate with others. But there's also another hidden advantage. When you stop pretending you can do it alone, you start seeing yourself differently. And not always in a positive way. You see, at MIT, everybody arrives thinking they're God's gift to the world. They were probably the smartest kid in their school, the local genius, someone who always had the answer. And then suddenly you're surrounded by hundreds if not thousands of students who are just as smart or even smarter, way smarter than you are. And that's when the impostor syndrome sets in. But then you're probably wondering, wait, what's the advantage in that? There has been a lot of research, recent research from MIT that talks about the impostor paradox and it suggests that people who experience imposttor syndrome often become better leaders. Why? Because when you're sure you're not the smartest person in the room, what are you going to do? You're going to focus on everyone else. You listen more. You'd ask better questions. you collaborate more openly, more naturally. And in the real world, that's exactly what separates the high impact leaders from individual performers. It's not intelligence alone. It's empathy. It's humility. It's knowing when to lead others and when to lean on others. So, according to this research, imposttor syndrome isn't a flaw. It helps you grow something even more valuable. emotional intelligence. And in today's era when AI can outthink all of us, empathy is the thing you're going to need the most to become a great leader. If you like this video, here's another one I think you'll enjoy. Thank you and I love

----
How To Manage Your Time Like a CEO
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HwwqlLJAZhM
If you want to manage your time like the top 1%, you need to stop following the same old productivity advice and start using a system that rewires your brain. As a CEO, board member, and investor at some of the fastest growing companies, my life was a firefight. For years, every second mattered. I had to make time for what drives results, cut distractions, and stay in control when things got chaotic. Today, I'll share a simple system I use. Borrow what works for you so you can make time for what matters to you. But before you apply this system, there is one question that can help you cut through the avalanche of online advice. Everyone has the same 160 hours per week, right? Why do the top performers get dramatically more done without burning out? Jack Dorsey can run Twitter and Square simultaneously in the same week you and I have. Elon Musk runs more than two companies, same number of hours. These CEOs don't manage time. They manage their attention. If you're just focused on the tactics of managing time like batching and prioritizing and time blocking, that's great, but you will still miss the big picture. It's about applying what I call the 321 system. Here's how to do it. The first part of the system is the three roles. Most people fail at productivity because they're playing the wrong game for their level. Taylor Swift is a perfect example. In the early days, she wrote songs and she recorded songs. Today she has to write, produce, record, perform, make music videos, run business operations, do philanthropy, manage brand partnerships. All of it while managing a global tour schedule. The time management system that worked for her early on would kill her productivity completely today because her game has changed and her role has changed. How she manages her time has to be completely reinvented. Marshall Goldsmith says the right thing. What got you here won't get you there. Habits that tend to work in simple phases of life actively harm you when you graduate to a role that demands complex responsibilities. That's what CEOs learn the hard way. If you want to manage your time like the 1% elites, you have to understand the role you're playing right now. And there are three roles. Maker, marker, multiplier. First, maker. This is relevant when you're juggling handful of priorities or if you're an individual contributor. Your role mostly requires that you do everything yourself. Stay in late, stay in your lane, heads down, deep work, details, diligence. You have clear deliverables, clear timelines. Your time management has to build with that role in mind. Now there are tons of folks I know around the world who love staying in that role throughout their entire career in tech, in finance, in pharma, research, several other vertical. And it's a totally acceptable path for time management and career management if that's what lights you up. But then some of you will want to graduate from maker to marker role. Now you have to manage 10 to 20 priorities in life all at once. You start managing a team. Maybe you have a life partner or a family. So in this phase, you can't touch every single thing on your own every single time. And you shouldn't. Think of it this way. You are transitioning from the maker to the marker mode. Everybody else in your team will produce research, code, business plans, whatever they're working on, but you are the marker. You're the editor. You give feedback. You give comments to refine their work. You don't take their work and start rewriting. You build processes that automate everything. You're doing and you're also delegating. That's the mix. The challenge in this phase is to understand what you can delegate and where you have to invest your own time. Anything that's missionritical to your project or your company or your brand, that's where you need to be totally hands-on. And from there you graduate to the third role, the multiplier role. That's when you have 30, 40, 50 responsibilities. You're managing a very large team. In this phase, you have to become what Eric Schmidt calls the most expensive router because your job is not to create. Your job is not to review what other people create. Your job is to recruit, orchestrate, and align your team. You focus on connecting people. You make strategic bets. You route requests from one corner to the other corner of your team. You have to stop obsessing over every little detail and focus on the big picture. Taylor Swift again is a great example. Her early career was about being a maker. Today, she's a maker in music, but she's a multiplier across the rest of her life. The core insight here is that if you don't know what role you're playing, you'll manage your time the wrong way. Delegating when you're a maker and micromanaging when you're a multiplier are both recipes for failure. You of course have to come up with tricks and techniques to manage your time better, but only after you know what role you're in. Otherwise, your calendar will fill fast with the wrong things and you won't get anything done. Or more alarmingly, no one around you will get anything done either. But the way you manage your attention is not just about the role you play. It's also about which zone you're in. The second part of the system is about two zones. Airbnb's founder almost killed the company by following textbook time management advice. So from 2016 to 2020, Airbnb's founder Brian Chesy did what every business school, every business book, and every VC will tell you to do. hire great people and get out of their way. Let them do their magic. Nothing wrong with that advice because when he was doing that, the business was growing. Brian was enjoying the multiplier role. But around year 2020, Airbnb's growth started slowing down. Cost started exploding. Co had changed the dynamics of every business including Airbnb. Chesy had to make a difficult decision. step in, get his hands back on the wheel, and steer the ship through the icebergs. He removed layers of leadership to make the company lean and flat. He got deeply involved in product, in every critical decision, every important detail, and the result, the company delivered over 500 product improvements in just 3 years. Airbnb went back to being a profitable company. That's how the zones affect your time management and your priorities. There are two zones, wartime and peace time. When Airbnb was collapsing, that was wartime. That's when you have to roll up your sleeves and get in there. Once the company stabilizes, step back again, become a multiplier. The key insight is that your zone dictates your role. wartime zone can force you to move from a multiplier to a marker or from a marker to a maker. Your system has to be this dynamic. You've got to know which zone you're in and act accordingly. When you're building a startup or when you're in a tough market or swimming in the red ocean with sharks, it's war time. And when you're in wartime, all bets are off. But even if you master your role and your zone, there is one final piece that separates the top 1% from everyone else. The third and final piece of the system is the one non-negotiable. I have seen many CEOs struggle with this until one brutal question changes everything. When I served as the CEO of our AI company few years ago, I had a great team. The timing was great and we had a great product. So we were one of the top 20 fastest growing tech companies in the US according to deoid fast 500 and we were absolutely in wartime zone. Every day was just plain chaos and every night I would stay up wondering if we can hire the right people fast enough whether our customers were delighted to have us as their partners. And then I started realizing that I was becoming a bottleneck in every decision. I had to ask myself that one question. What is the one thing that only I can do? That one thing I should focus on while I delegate everything else. And I thought about it and I realized that we were growing because of our mission. If I could focus on building relationships with our people and with our customers, then I could articulate our mission even more clearly. I focused on that one thing, relationships, on recruiting, on culture, on internal communication, on customer partnership, every touch point that helped me build the relationships. The rest of it I delegated. I still had daily standups with our sea level team. We had our weekly leadership meeting, product meetings, tech meetings, finance meetings. That's the operating rhythm of the company. And you need that to build the execution muscle. But for me personally, my proactive focus was on that one thing that I couldn't delegate, which was building missiondriven relationships. Now, I'm not sharing this to show off or anything, but to showcase how you can put your CEO hat on. Your 321 system is about three roles, two zones, one non-negotiable. You have identified your one non-negotiable. But how do you actually delegate everything else without it all falling apart? The best leaders don't manage time, they manage trust. Steve Jobs and Johnny IV are the gold standard when it comes to this. Johnny IV was the chief design leader at Apple and he designed iPod and iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch. These were complex tasks, right? The designs had to be tasteful but they had to keep in mind the cost. Cost of manufacturing, cost of supply chain, all of that. So Steve Jobs and Johnny would meet every day for lunch and then they could go for a walk and they would talk about business, design, aesthetics, art. Steve would ask deep questions. He would review everything. Every detail mattered to him. But here's the thing, Johnny never felt micromanaged. Why? Because Steve Jobs was there as a partner, not as a boss. He was in the details to learn everything, not to control everything. And that's what most people miss when they move from doing to delegating. Because leading is not about time management, it's about trust management. You review things but to coach. You connect but to provide context. You step in but to unblock others. So your time management outside of your own deep work is spent on developing and managing trust. And how do you find the right rhythm for delegation? It depends on three things. If your teammate is new to the task, work alongside them. Build trust by giving comfort. If they have some experience, guide them closely. Review steps, but build trust by giving clarity. And if they're experts, step in to unblock. Build trust by giving context. That's what Steve Jobs was doing with Johnny IV. If new hires get too much freedom, they will fail. And if experienced people get micromanaged, they will quit. You lose both ways. So that's trust management. Trust speeds up everything. And remember, you don't need to be a CEO or a founder to apply any of these ideas, right? You can still apply to your calendar with your teammate, to your roommate, your partner, your spouse, your kids, whoever. So, here's what I would invite you to do this week. Pick any of the following. Define your role, name your zone, write your one non-negotiable, or delegate one repeatable task. And remember the eternal principle. You cannot control time. You can only steward the time you have. In the end, good time management helps you make time for what matters to you personally, things that bring you joy and happiness. Because your time is finite. If you like this video, I hope you find time for another one here that I think you will enjoy. See you next week. Thank you and I love you.

----
The 12 Habits I've Learned to Get Rich in My 30s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZXRxAvmVmI
You don't rise to the level of your goals, you fall to the level of your systems. So today, I'm giving you the 12 habits that made me rich so you can steal them. Every dollar I've made, every business investment deal was built on a foundation of boring, repeatable daily habits. And every single one I'm showing you is backed by real data, not opinion. Steal these habits. Stack them daily. Let's get into it. Number one, throw out your TV. Your TV is stealing your dreams. Ah, take. But the TV is costing you more than you think, maybe even your millions. Let's break it down like this. If you're watching hours of Netflix a night, you're not just killing time, you're killing opportunity. According to Neielson, the average American spends 3 hours per day watching TV. That's [ __ ] insane. What is wrong with us? That's 45.6 days per year gone. Another long-term study found that our kids are going to be dumber and poorer the more TV they watch. And this isn't about poverty or low test scores. the effect held even after controlling for those. The data says more TV, lower educational achievement, higher risk of unemployment. TV habits don't just waste time, they quietly sabotage your future earning power. I'm not saying never relax, by the way. I'm saying stop outsourcing your imagination to a screen. Every hour watching somebody else's story is one not building your own story. TV passive, wealth active. Here's the rule. You can own a TV, but I think you're only allowed one in the house. That's what I do. We call it the multitask. No watching TV unless you're multitasking. That can mean doing a little ab workout. I do that. I'm trying to work on mine. Rolling out your legs. Uh that's pretty miserable. I do that, too. It could mean doing some work, but like don't just like melt into the couch to escape reality. Here's how you can start. One, cancel autoay on at least two streaming apps. You probably have way more than you think. Two, track your screen time like you track your spending. Do you want to be known as the chief Tik Tocker? Three, replace TV time with something that builds ROI. So, like read, walk, call, and talk to a friend. Four, if you're scared to toss the TV, just do a 30-day no TV challenge. Journal what changes. Number two, how you start is how you finish. So, simple, easy, less than 30 minute move. I want you to do a hard workout or at least a walk first thing every morning or 60% of the time every time. I think waking up at 5:45 a.m. solves 99.9% of problems. So, every morning before emails, before talking to anybody, before chaos, before somebody else takes over your morning, I hit a hard workout. Got it. You ready? It's pretty much my non-negotiable. Why? Because moving my body before moving my business, that changed everything for me. Otherwise, you get that that like anxiety in your chest about everything coming in. And it's not just me. This massive analysis of over 2,700 clinical trials found that regular exercise significantly improves your brain function, makes you smarter. Even light or moderate activity boosts executive function and general cognition, aka makes smarter decisions, especially when they matter. You don't need to train like an athlete. I certainly don't. You just need to move. Basically, your brain and your body, they work better when they're both going, which means they're making more money, too. Wealth comes from clear decisions. So, when I was making my first couple of business deals, I was anxious as [ __ ] you guys. I mean, my morning walks, I used I call them stress walks now, but they're like my reset button. Some of my best ideas came right after those walks, right after those workouts. Not because I was smarter all of a sudden, but I was just clearer. So, how to start? Four things that really will help you stick to this. One, lay out your clothes the night before. This is James Clear 101 from Atomic Habit. My friend Mel says, "I lay out my exercise clothes on the floor. It is a giant middle finger to myself. Do I want to work out? Hell no. But when I wake up, it's visible." Two, I'm only allowed to listen to my favorite podcasts or books while I'm working out that day. After I've worked out, I can go do some work. Three, walk or run lift. Whatever. It doesn't actually matter. Start with 20 minutes, then build. And then, as my friend Gabriel Lion says, do it every day. Yes, even on the weekends. Your body first investment. All right. Number three, negotiate one thing every day. One of the highest ROI habits I built, negotiating for everything. The rent that I ever pay. I've never bought a house that I didn't negotiate. I've never bought a car that I didn't negotiate. I've never taken a job that I didn't negotiate. I've really never bought a big purchase without negotiating it. You should never ever accept the first offer. And according to a study of newly hired employees across a bunch of industries, they found that those who negotiated their starting salary earned 5,000 more on average per year than those who didn't. And when you model that out, just a 5% annual raise over a 40-year career, that's over $600,000 in additional lifetime savings. Negotiation isn't just about money. It's about knowing your value and asking for it. I actually started doing this in the 2020 crisis. We had a bunch of our portfolio companies that were literally going under. I thought we were going to go bankrupt. I thought a bunch of them were going to go over. I was panicking. Founders were calling me every seven seconds. And then here's what we did. I said, "Pick your biggest expenses and I'm going to help you negotiate them down." So, we went through every single one of the top 10 expenses in our companies. I'd call up the landlord and I'd start there and I'd say, "We literally do not have the money to pay for this. We want to stay here. We don't have sufficient funds. We could pay you this instead." And I'd shut up. The crazy part is this worked. $6.80. Freddy, you've won. So then I started doing it everywhere because I realized their margin is your expense. So how do you start? Practice really small. You guys do something really weird that my friend Noah Kagan taught me. Ask for discounts on coffees. Do it on internet bills. Use this line. Is that the best you can do? Know your leverage. Research before big conversations, jobs, raises, etc. What's market rate? Then also back it up like what are you actually doing? Are you worth that? Are you kind of a schlub? Know actually what your negotiating position is. Now, I want you to reframe this entirely. Negotiation isn't conflict. If you don't ask, you don't get. And rich people, they usually ask. Before we get into the next habit, let me give you a bonus one that made me and a lot of founders I know a lot more successful. Start before you're ready. Most people waste months, sometimes years, getting ready to start a business. Perfecting the logo, tweaking the colors, obsessing over fonts. Meanwhile, the people who actually build wealth, they test, launch, learn real time. So, here's the move. Stop overthinking. Get your idea live fast. And that's where today's sponsor, GoDaddy Arrow, comes in. Arrow is this new AI powered tool from GoDaddy that turns your business idea into a real brand instantly. You type in what you want to build and it spins up a domain name, a clean website, even your first marketing materials in minutes. You bring the idea, Arrow builds the business, and then you can get back to doing the actual wealth building habits we talk about here, selling, testing, improving. So, if you've got an idea sitting in your notes app, this is your sign to turn it into something real. Head to godaddy.com/cody Sanchez to try arrow and get your idea off the ground today. Big thanks to GoDaddy for sponsoring this video and for making it faster to start than to scroll. All right, back to the habits. Four, hang around people who have bigger bank accounts than you. You know, one of the simplest habits that made me rich, I just was like around a lot of people richer than me, and I still do it today. Not because I'm chasing clout, but because I'm chasing clues. If you're always the wealthiest, the smartest, the most ambitious in the room, you're in the wrong [ __ ] room. I have this incredible study here from Stockholm that followed children from the 1950s all the way into adulthood and found out the kids from lowincome families who had even one rich friend in school went on to earn more as adults than their peers who didn't. Their income was the same in their families. They just knew other rich people. That income bump was most significant for those who were poor. Just one privileged friend boosted their adult income ranking by two to three percentiles. What they believe is it's about access. Wealthier friends help expand your worldview, raise your aspirations, and connect you to people cuz rich people think differently. This doesn't have to become your best friend. But if you can spend more time with somebody richer than you, even just once a week, I think you're going to realize that they live slightly different than you, and you cannot attract what you are repelling. So get those negative thoughts about rich people out of your head. So, how do you start? We're going to audit your circle. Ask yourself, are your five closest people pushing you forward or are they holding you in place? I call these couch friends versus treadmill friends. Treadmill friends, when you're done with them, you're like, "God, I feel good. I've been running." Couch friends, you're like, "Wo, I am slumping." Which one of your friends would jump up and down celebrating because you became a millionaire even if they were broke right now? Which one of your friends would want to take your spot instead? Which one of your friends gets more excited than you do when you win? girls, I'm going to Harvard. If they don't, are they really your buddy? Now, I want you to join rooms above your level. There are always business meetups, investor dinners, mastermind groups you can go to. Always look them up in your city. We have one at Contrarian Thinking. I like to ask this question to people wealthier than me, too. What's the smartest money decision you've made recently and shut up and listen? Now, don't fake it. Show up as a student, not a showoff. My rule of thumb is if they have more money than me, I'm largely listening. I'm not talking that much. I'm trying to help them for sure, but not trying to show off to them. So, you want to get rich? Spend time with people who already have the thing that you want. Five, I want you to audit your equity weekly. Track ownership, not just effort. Most people track their to-do list. Rich people, they track their equity every single week. I don't just ask, "What did I do this week?" I asked, "What did I build? What do I own more of?" That's the difference between a worker and a wealth builder. So data shows that the top 1% hold 40 to 50% of their total wealth in private businesses and for the top.1% that number is bigger than 50%. Okay. So how do you track your wealth? I want you to think about it weekly because you stay focused on the things that matter. You make smarter decisions with your time. You stop mistaking activity for progress. Busyiness is not being good in business. And this may be crazy, but I do a personal profit and loss statement or what's called the P&L statement. Means I track how much I'm worth and what my liabilities are, what my expenses are. Am I growing? Am I stagnating? Am I losing money? Just like a business. Now, I have a chief investment officer that does this for me. He makes hundreds of thousands of dollars just managing my money. And this is normal for rich people. They actually have somebody else watch their money like a kid. So, how do you start? Create a simple Google sheet, Excel spreadsheet, columns, asset type, value, change, notes, things you need to know about it. You track your equity you own weekly, and this could include stocks, business ownership, real estate, crypto, IP, rev share. It could include your income. Then set a recurring 15-minute calendar event. I like Sundays. I ask, did I grow this week or am I losing? What if your calendar is actually keeping you broke? So, we've audited equity, tracking what you own. The second audit that really decides your net worth, what are you doing every day? Because money is a reflection of equity, but equity is built with time. So, how much are you on Instagram? How much are you on Tik Tok? How much are you on YouTube? Not on my channel. You can be here. If you are sitting around, you need to track every single day. And I hope that you follow along with us and you share this with a friend and you hold each other responsible for the time that you spend consuming as opposed to creating because rich people treat their time like capital. They spend it only where it compounds. They only do things that make them more money. They don't pour it into distractions. So, after I started tracking my equity weekly, I thought, wait, what if I track my calendar the same way? Now, every Sunday, I run a brutal time on it. How do you start? Open last week's calendar. Assign codes. Green makes you money. Yellow, I don't know. Red makes me miserable or makes me lose money. Then, I want you to kill or delegate one red block this week. Protect your green time like it's sacred, because it is. Every day you should be doing something to make you money. And then repeat every Sunday. 15 minutes. Pay attention to your money like a mistress. Cuz if you don't, she'll leave you. Goodbye. Okay. Delete. Delete. Delete. I want you to swipe less, man. I want you to delete most of the apps and buy your brain. Study after study shows that people who significantly reduce their social media exposure have sharper focus, better mood, they're happier, and less stressed. One week, you guys, and you're a different person. Your attention is going to improve. you're less emotionally scattered. The catch, for me at least, tiny cuts don't really work. The real benefits only come when you make real reductions. Like, I'm talking 50% or more. Next one. Headphones on, world off. Though, these are not mine because I do not [ __ ] with wireless headphones. I got that little conspiracy theorist in me. I don't think it's good for your brain. This one is such a game changer. Even if it makes you look antisocial, like I wear headphones to block out distractions, even in public or at work. A large-scale study of over 400 knowledge workers found that using a visible signal of focus headphones reduce interruptions by nearly 46%. Not only that, workers reported feeling more productive, better able to concentrate, and more respected during deep work sessions. Every interruption, you guys, costs more than a few seconds. It breaks your flow, and flow is where the best business ideas come from. So, earphones help you guard the gates to that. Music, no music, actually doesn't matter. I like to avoid lyrics because they compete with your thoughts in your head. So, stick with some rhythmic music and you're off to the races. Next, I want you to do one unpopular thing every day. Let me tell you why this matters and why doing one thing a day that makes you a little uncomfortable and maybe is even a little unpopular is so incredibly important. The Association for Psychological Science found that people who were encouraged to embrace discomfort took more creative risks, stayed more engaged, and persisted longer in uncertain and challenging tasks. So discomfort became a motivating signal. Participants reframed it as a cue for growth rather than a reason to back off. Why? Leaning into discomfort, it builds grit. One of the most important things for entrepreneurs, the crowd. They'll keep you broke, tired, and trapped in people pleasing loops. You don't build empires by waiting for applause. You build them by doing the right thing, especially when you're going to be misunderstood about it. When I get an answer I don't like, I ask three questions. I say, "Why can't I have this?" And if their answer isn't specific enough, I say, "Is it against the rules of physics?" Like, "Does physics say 1 + 1 cannot equal 5?" The answer is usually no. The second question is, is it illegal to do so? Like, will I go to jail for this? Will you go to jail for this? The answer is usually no. Then the third question, is this just something that we don't want to do or you don't want to do? This is not super popular, but it really narrows the field and it makes people realize how often they say they can't when they should be saying, "Here's what it would take to do that." So, each morning, write one small thing you'll do that might ruffle some feathers. So, daily discomfort equals long-term dominance. Number 10, the notto-do list. We've talked about building habits that create wealth. But here's the flip side. The part no one tells you. Success isn't just about what you do, it's about what you refuse to do. In the beginning, you got to say yes to everything. When you're not rich, you got to say yes a lot. As you get rich, you have to do a lot of things less. So, I actually started writing one down years ago, and it changed the game. There was a global study actually on CEO behavior and they found that the most successful CEOs spend more of their time on strategic decisions and external relationships far less on reactive internal busy work. So high performing leaders basically are delegating or eliminating low-level tasks and only working on things that fall as the most important thing they should do next. Literally every single successful person I know has a not to-do list. And here's mine and some people will hate this. This is a real list. The internet's not like this. I don't pick people up from the airport. I don't hire or hang out with people who cheat on their spouses. I don't gossip about people and I tell people that when they start to, I kindly want no part of it. I don't wear stilettos for more than 60 minutes ever. I don't like unsolicited phone calls, so I don't take them. I don't respond to texts that just say, "Hey, call me." I hate that. I don't do let me pick your brain coffee meetings. I don't take a meeting or a phone call without getting the agenda first. I do not say that's impossible or I can't do that. I don't help friends move. I'll have a drink with you afterwards. I don't go to toddler birthday parties unless I have a toddler and I do not. So, I do not attend toddler birthday parties. I don't take my phone off silent mode ever. I don't fill up my own gas tank anymore. I now don't ever get my nails done unless I'm on a meeting at the same time, usually at my office. So, like, do you see how ridiculous these are? They're but they're so particular to me. So, how can you do the same thing? Grab a piece of paper or open a dock and label it the notto-do list, right? Five things that steal your time, energy, decision-m discipline isn't just doing more. It's choosing the right less. Your notto-do list might be the richest document you own. One ask a day. The other day, I really liked this. I learned it from a neuroscientist that she puts a real calendar like this on her wall. And at any given time, she's only allowed to have one ask on it, one thing that she needs to do every single day. And every day that she executes on it, she puts a big check mark. It might be reaching out to somebody that's kind of famous, that's interesting for you, and seeing if they have a book that you should read. The next day might be asking somebody out on a date. The next day might be selling your product to somebody. One ask a day, one brave DM a day. Cold outreach is free leverage. One DM could lead to a mentor, an investor, a deal, a job, a gamechanging new update in your life. You're celebrating the action, not the outcome. If 5% reply, that's a win. It's a volume game. So, every big opportunity in my life came from a single moment that I decided to do something uncomfortable. Very, very few people do this. And if you do this in a kind and loving and really curious way as opposed to a hungry thirsty way, you will shock yourself as to how much money you could make. Okay, if you're in sales or if you have a business, uh I'm going to change your life in one second. I used to be in sales and investments. I've sold billions of dollars of investments at First Trust and Goldman and Vanguard. And I think I became the top salesperson at most of my companies for this one reason. Every single day at the end of the day, I would write down a list of every single person I needed to call the next day in order to get sales done. I used to average like 40 or 60 calls a day. And I would start the morning by doing nothing except calling those people. I knew if I ended my day with the most important task, making sales, and I started my day with the most important task, making sales, it was more likely that I would raise more money. So, how can you start? Pick one thing to sell daily, big or small. Could be a product, consulting. Sell something today and again tomorrow. and stack the days and watch what happens. And if you comment what your sales pitch would be, I'll comment on a bunch of your sales pitches in the YouTube comments and tell you what I think you could do better. Because the truth is, you do not need a 10-year plan. You need one habit today. You steal these habits. You repeat them. Watch what happens.

----
8 Tiny Japanese Habits That Make a Massive Difference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0fqRqLHq_w
Have you ever wondered why Japan has one of the longest life expecties in the world? Why their cities are spotless? Why so many people seem calm, focused, and purposeful? It's not genetics. It's not luck. It's habits. Tiny habits that most people overlook. Habits so small they seem almost insignificant. But that's exactly why they work. Today, I'm going to show you eight tiny Japanese habits that create massive differences in your life. Not in dramatic overnight transformations, but in the kind of deep, lasting change that compounds over years. These aren't complicated rituals. They're not timeconsuming practices. They're small, almost effortless actions. But when you do them consistently, they reshape everything. Because in Japan, there's a saying, the nail that sticks out gets hammered down. But there's another side to that philosophy. When everyone moves in harmony, the whole society rises. So, let's talk about what that actually looks like in daily life. The first tiny habit is called kaizen, and it might be the most powerful concept you'll ever learn. Kaizen means continuous improvement, but not the kind where you overhaul your entire life on January 1st and burn out by February. It's the opposite. It's about making improvements so small they're almost invisible. 1% better every day. That's it. In Japanese companies, this philosophy is everywhere. Toyota became one of the most successful car manufacturers in the world because of Kaizen. Not by making massive changes, but by encouraging every worker every day to find one tiny thing to improve. A process that could be 1 second faster, a tool that could be placed 2 in closer, a step that could be eliminated entirely. It sounds insignificant, but when you do that every single day for years, the compound effect is staggering. And this doesn't just apply to factories. It applies to your life. Want to get in shape? Don't commit to the gym for an hour every day. Do one push-up, just one. That's so easy you can't say no. And once you do one, you'll probably do five, then 10, and before you know it, it's a habit. Want to read more? Don't force yourself to read for an hour. Read one page. One page is nothing. But one page a day is 365 pages a year. That's more than most people read in 5 years. Kaizen removes the friction. It makes improvement invisible until the results become undeniable. Because the goal isn't to transform overnight. The goal is to never stop moving forward. And that brings us to the second tiny habit, eeky guy. Eeky guy is your reason for being. It's the thing that makes you wake up in the morning. Not your job, not your responsibilities, but the thing that gives your life meaning. In Okinawa, one of the blue zones where people regularly live past 100, almost everyone can tell you they're eeky guy. And researchers believe that sense of purpose is one of the main reasons they live so long. Because here's the thing, when you have a reason to wake up, your body wants to keep going. But when life feels meaningless, your health declines, your energy drops, you age faster. Eeky isn't about grand ambitions. It's not about changing the world or becoming famous. It can be as simple as tending a garden, teaching a skill, spending time with grandchildren, creating something with your hands. The key is that it's yours. It's not what society tells you to care about. It's what genuinely makes you feel alive. And here's the framework the Japanese use to find it. Eeky sits at the intersection of four things. what you love, what you're good at, what the world needs from you, and how you can be paid for it. When you find something that touches all four, that's your eeky guy. And when you live according to that, everything else falls into place. But most people never sit down and ask themselves these questions. They just drift. They do what they're supposed to do, and they wonder why life feels empty. So, pause. right now and ask yourself what do I love? What am I good at? What does the world need from me? And how can I support myself doing it? You don't need all the answers today, but if you start asking the questions, the answers will come. The third tiny habit is harahachi buu, and it's one of the simplest ways to live longer. Harahachi Buu means eat until you're 80% full. Not stuffed, not satisfied, just 80%. In Okinawa, people say this phrase before every meal. It's a reminder, a tiny moment of mindfulness, and it keeps them from overeating. Because here's the problem. Your brain takes about 20 minutes to register that you're full. So, if you eat until you feel full, you've already overeaten. You've consumed more than your body needed. And over time, that extra 20% adds up. It leads to weight gain, sluggishness, inflammation, all the things that make you age faster. But if you stop at 80%, you give your body exactly what it needs, nothing more. And that slight calorie restriction has been shown to extend lifespan in almost every species studied. Now, this doesn't mean starving yourself. It means eating slowly, paying attention, putting your fork down between bites, asking yourself, "Am I actually still hungry, or am I just eating because it's there?" Most people eat on autopilot. They finish what's on the plate because that's what they're supposed to do. But your plate doesn't know how much your body needs. So, the next time you eat, try this. Halfway through your meal, pause. Check in. Ask yourself, could I stop here and feel fine? If yes, stop. If not, keep going, but slowly. It's not about restriction. It's about awareness. And that tiny shift in awareness might be the simplest health habit you ever adopt. The fourth tiny habit is shiny yoku, forest bathing. This isn't exercise. It's not hiking. It's simply being in nature, walking slowly, breathing deeply, noticing what's around you. In Japan, doctors actually prescribe this. They'll tell patients to spend time in the forest, not as a metaphor, as medicine. And the science backs it up. When you spend time in nature, your cortisol drops, your blood pressure lowers, your immune system strengthens, even your mood improves. There's something about being surrounded by trees that resets your nervous system. And researchers think it has to do with phytoides. These are compounds that trees release to protect themselves from insects. And when you breathe them in, your body responds. Your stress hormones decrease. Your parasympathetic nervous system activates. You shift from fight or flight to rest and digest. But here's the thing. You don't need a forest. You don't need to live in Japan. You just need trees, a park, a trail, even a treeline street. The key is to go without distractions. No phone, no podcast, no goal. Just walk slowly and pay attention. Notice the light filtering through the leaves, the sound of the wind, the smell of the earth. Let your mind wander. This isn't wasted time. This is recovery. And in a world that's constantly demanding your attention, this tiny practice might be the most important hour of your week. The fifth tiny habit is wabishabi. And it's a mindset that changes how you see everything. Wabishabi is the acceptance of imperfection. The beauty of things that are impermanent, incomplete, and imperfect. In the west, we're obsessed with perfection. flawless skin, perfect bodies, spotless homes, curated Instagram feeds. But that pursuit is exhausting and it's a lie because nothing is perfect. Nothing lasts forever and nothing is ever finished. Wabishabi says that's okay. In fact, that's where the beauty is. A cracked teacup isn't broken. It's lived. A weathered wooden table isn't old. It's full of history. A wrinkle on your face isn't a flaw. It's a map of your life. When you embrace wabishabi, you stop chasing the impossible. You stop comparing yourself to airbrushed images. You stop feeling like you're not enough. Instead, you start appreciating what is right now as it is. And that shift is freeing because suddenly you don't need to fix everything. You don't need to be more, do more, have more. you can just be. This doesn't mean giving up. It means accepting that progress is messy, that life is imperfect, and that's not a problem. That's the point. So, the next time you notice something imperfect in your life, pause. Instead of seeing it as something to fix, ask yourself, what's beautiful about this? That crack in the wall, that scar on your hand, that mistake you made last week, they're not flaws. They're proof you're living. The sixth tiny habit is gin, and it's one of the most misunderstood concepts in Japanese culture. Gam means endurance with dignity. It's the ability to tolerate difficulty without complaint, to persevere through hardship without breaking down. Now, in the West, this might sound like toxic positivity, like just suck it up and don't feel your feelings. But that's not what Gmen is about. Gmen isn't about denying your pain. It's about not letting your pain control you. It's the quiet strength that says, "This is hard, but I can handle it. I don't need to broadcast my struggle. I don't need validation. I just need to keep going." And there's something powerful about that because when you stop complaining, you stop reinforcing the narrative that you're a victim. You stop feeding the story that life is happening to you. Instead, you take responsibility. You accept that difficulty is part of life and you choose how you respond to it. This doesn't mean you suffer in silence. It means you don't let suffering define you. And in a world where everyone is constantly sharing their struggles online, looking for sympathy, looking for likes. Gin is a reminder you don't need an audience to be strong. You just need to show up. The seventh tiny habit is omoyari. Compassionate consideration. Omoari is the ability to put yourself in someone else's shoes, to anticipate their needs before they ask. To act with kindness, not because you have to, but because you're thinking about how your actions affect others. In Japan, this is everywhere. People speak quietly on trains so they don't disturb others. They clean up after themselves in public spaces. They bow when they greet you, not out of subservience, but out of respect. It's a society built on the idea that we're all connected. That your actions ripple outward. That when you make life easier for others, life becomes easier for everyone. And this isn't just polite. It's practical. Because when everyone practices omoari, trust increases, stress decreases, society functions more smoothly. But more than that, omoyari makes you happier because when you shift your focus from yourself to others, your own problems shrink, your perspective widens, and you feel more connected to the world around you. So try this. The next time you're about to do something, pause and ask, "How will this affect the people around me?" If you're playing music, is it too loud? If you're talking on the phone, are you in someone's way? If you're leaving a space, is it cleaner than when you arrived? These tiny acts of consideration cost you nothing, but they create a ripple effect that changes everything. The eighth and final tiny habit is kinugi. The art of repairing broken things with gold. When a bowl or vase breaks in Japan, they don't throw it away, they repair it. But instead of hiding the cracks, they fill them with gold. And the piece becomes more beautiful than it was before. Kugi is a metaphor for life. You will break. You will fail. You will be hurt. But that doesn't make you worthless. It makes you real. And when you repair yourself, when you put the pieces back together, those cracks become part of your story. They're not something to hide. They're something to honor. Because the strongest people aren't the ones who never broke. They're the ones who broke. and rebuilt themselves and they carry that gold with them. So if you're going through something hard right now, remember this. You're not damaged. You're being transformed. And the version of you that comes out the other side will be stronger, wiser, and more beautiful than before. Don't hide your scars. Let them shine. So here's what you need to remember. These eight tiny habits aren't quick fixes. They're not life hacks. They're principles and principles take time. Kaizen teaches you that small improvements compound into massive results. Ikiguai gives you a reason to keep going. Harahachi Buu protects your health with one simple rule. Shin Yoku restores your mind in minutes while Bishabi frees you from perfection. Gamin builds your resilience quietly. Omoyari connects you to others through small acts. And Kugi reminds you that breaking isn't the end. You don't need to adopt all eight at once. Pick one. Start tiny. Let it become part of who you are and then add another. Because the Japanese don't chase transformation. They build it one tiny choice at a time, one small habit at a time. And over the course of a lifetime, those tiny habits create massive differences. A life that's calm, purposeful, and deeply fulfilling. Not because it's perfect, but because it's intentional. If this shifted how you think about habits, hit subscribe. Because the secret to massive change isn't doing more. It's doing tiny things consistently, quietly, without needing the world to notice. And that's something worth

----
9 Habits for Clearer Speaking (I Wish I Knew Sooner)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PiNN-HmHu7A&t=10s
How do you speak clearly without overthinking every single word? You know that moment when you're talking and halfway through your sentence, you don't even know what point you're trying to make. My name is Vin. I've coached millions of people to improve their communication skills. And the nine habits that I'm going to share with you in this video, it's going to help you become a clearer speaker. I wish I learned these lessons much sooner. And I'm going to break them down into three groups. Delivery habits, vocal habits, and cognitive habits. Let's focus on delivery habits. Group one. Do you want to sound more confident? Do you want to sound more intelligent? Do you want to also sound more trustworthy? If you do, the secret is pause more. And this is easily one of the most overlooked tools in communication. That's why every single time I post a reel on Instagram about the pause, the damn thing goes viral every single time. Because people are always shocked at how this simple change can create transformations. Our brains crave white space. It's the same reason why paragraphs exists in writing. Look at this paragraph on screen for example versus this paragraph. Which one looks more digestible? Now that we've had a look at this visually with the paragraphs, I want to give you an example auditory wise. Watch what happens if I just keep talking without pauses and I create no spaces within what I'm saying and I just keep going. Everything starts to just blend in together. And do you notice how when there's no separation and there's no pauses after a while everything I say just becomes mumbo jumbo and nothing really sticks. Only when I do that example in that exact way you understand that without pauses your ideas blur together. With them though they land. And here's the beautiful irony. People who pause more are perceived as being more confident, not less. Now, if you pair delivery habit one with this next delivery habit two, you've got a powerful combo. Slow down to highlight. Often most people, they speak at one speed, one tempo, one rhythm. And often the rhythm is fast. This is one of the biggest problems growing up in the Vietnamese and Chinese culture. My default speaking rate is extremely fast. And old habits die hard. So the moment I am nervous, just 10% nervous, I am off to the races. I thought that if I learn to speak really quickly, that means I can share lots of information per minute, and that means that I'm going to have more impact. And I didn't realize that speaking like that reduces and dilutes impact instead. When you speak really fast all the time, nothing stands out. It all just blurs together. It's like you're reading a book and then you're just highlighting the whole damn page. Let me show you this example here. You tell me which one hits harder. I just want to remind you that your voice matters and your communication skills is one of the most important skills that you'll develop in this life. Your voice, it matters. Communication, it's not just a skill, it's a superpower. Now, you tell me. Did you feel the difference? Did you notice how when I combined slowing down my speech with a pause, oh, it's just beautiful. And I'm not saying always speak like that. I'm saying speak like that when you want the point to land, when you want to be more impactful with your words. Now, as we move on to delivery habit three, most people ramble a lot, and that's because they haven't learned how to use declarative statements. And again here I want to remind you that these are all skills that you can learn. You are not stuck with your communication skills. These are just habits and you can change habits. And often when it comes to rambling, this happens when your mouth moves faster than your thoughts. You're literally thinking while you're speaking. That's rambling. So when you learn how to make declarative statements, it helps you reduce the ramble. And these are just short, concise, to the-p point sentences that have a full stop to them. So, I was thinking maybe we could, you know, potentially look at the other ideas that we had, you know, the ideas when like um we're going to like post on social media, you know, like more often. So, yeah, I think it's, you know, um it's kind of important to maybe consider the timing um of the launch too because, you know, it could possibly affect our uh engagement level and how we we make Oh, I used to talk and it was a mess. It was vague. And the worst thing is it makes you sound unsure even when you are sure and you know your stuff. Now I want you to contrast what you just heard with this next example where I'm going to use declarative statement. Timing and consistency with our social media content will directly impact engagement. BM. How much better was that? I basically had the same message. you just came across 10 times more clear and coherent. Great delivery isn't just about what you say. It's how you control your delivery and energy when you say it. The pause creates space for your ideas to land. Slowing down acts like a verbal highlighter, signaling that something important is being communicated. And declarative statements remove the guesswork. It replaces hesitation with clarity and conviction. Together, all these three delivery habits transforms your voice from being background noise into something that people want to hear. Now, let's get into group two, vocal habits. When we're thinking about vocal habits, let me ask you a few things to kick things off. Do you ever feel like your throat gets sore after you are speaking for an extended period of time? Do you ever feel extremely fatigued after a presentation? And do you ever lose your voice? Or do you ever feel like your voice doesn't sound strong? and and your voice feels weak and and and you think to yourself, "What's happening with my voice? Why is it being like this?" Well, if you relate to any of the things that I just said, you need to understand vocal habit number one. Warm up your voice before you use it. Your voice is a muscle system, and just like any muscle, if you go straight from cold to full exertion, then you're going to strain it and it's going to underperform. But here's the thing, vocal warm-ups, they feel awkward and you sound weird while you're doing it and it takes a lot of effort. And also because nobody else around you is doing it. And because no one does it around you, you end up skipping it and you don't do it, too. Here's my go-to warm-up. If there's only one thing I can do, this is what I'd do. Lip trills. The first thing is for a full minute on just one note, I'd do a lip trill. So, I'd do this. Yeah. Do that for a minute. Now, if you struggle doing this, don't worry. Your lips and your mouth, it's not broken. All you got to do if you struggle to do this is take your two index fingers, push your cheeks in, and then try. Huh, it works. You're not broken. Some people can do it without. Some people need a little bit of support. It's okay. You do that for a full minute and breathe obviously as often as you need to while you're doing this. Then second part of the exercise. Now lip trill your favorite song. So here I'll do mine. See if you can guess the song. [Laughter] Wow Vin that was a really long example. Can you guess what song it is? only the best song to be written by the best boy band ever. So then you lip trill your favorite song and then the last one, this is the last lip trill exercise for you to warm up. Do lip trills in short bursts and do that for a minute. So essentially what you're doing is you're going and by doing this you're warming up your vocal folds without straining them. This helps you reset your breath support. And it also helps you reduce vocal tension. And just remember, do this out of sight. Don't do this in the middle of the work meeting. Don't do this while you're in the interview room. Do this while you're in the car. And as you start to do this more and more before you need your voice, you'll notice your voice getting clearer. You'll have stronger projection. And most importantly, you'll have less vocal fatigue. Let's move on to vocal habit number two. Now, this is going to sound a little bit strange, but this habit is going to help protect your voice when you are not speaking. Okay? We have massive chunks of the day where we're just sitting by the computer and we're working on our own and we don't talk to anybody. How you breathe during those moments can either be protecting your vocal instrument or damaging it. A lot of people without realizing while they're not using their voice, they're defaulting to mouth breathing which dries out your throat and your vocal cords. It leads to shallow breathing and you often feel more fatigued as a result of mouth breathing. Whereas if you start to train and develop a new habit and you always default to nose breathing, the benefits are just crazy. We take over 20,000 breaths a day. So, if you can just learn this one simple habit, replace mouth breathing with nose breathing, it's going to optimize how you feel. It's going to optimize your health dramatically, and it compounds fast. When you breathe with your nose, one, it humidifies the air. Two, it keeps your throat and vocal cords hydrated and moist. Three, it improves oxygen efficiency by 20%. Four, it also activates your parasympathetic nervous system, which helps you relax and feel more calm. And five, when you breathe through your nose, it filters out all the bad stuff. That's why we all have hair on the inside of our nose. So, you shouldn't wax it. Don't wax it. I've seen those waxing videos. Why would you do it? It looks so painful. I bet this is something you've never thought about. you just thought, "Oh, breathing is just breathing." Whether I breathe through my mouth or my nose, it's the same thing. So, this is an important habit check. Just check what's your default breathing method. Is it through your mouth or through your nose? And now, moving directly into vocal habit number three. Use more volume when you speak. Now, keep in mind, I'm not talking about shouting. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about speaking with more presence, with more vitality, with volume that fills the space. When you speak in a healthy volume, you're not just sharing information. You're transferring energy. Every time you speak, your vocal cords, they vibrate. And those vibrations, they travel through the air and they hit other people's ears. And it tells them something before your words even land. Do you know what they say? They say, "I'm alive. I care. And I believe in what I'm saying." People don't just hear what you're saying. They feel it. Volume isn't just about being heard. It's about being felt. People subconsciously link vocal strength to personal strength. When your voice is small, they assume your ideas are small, too. But when your voice carries, so does your conviction. A lot of people tend to think that speaking louder is being too much. When what's actually too common is playing too small. If you don't speak up, people can't connect. They can't connect with your voice. They can't connect with your energy. They can't connect with you. All right, let's move on to group number three, cognitive habits. Cognitive habit number one. If you want to sound more clear, if you want to sound smarter, and you want to sound more confident, finish one thought at a time. When you don't finish a thought before starting the next one, your listener has to mentally chase you. And most of the time, they actually won't chase you. They'll just zone out. Imagine I did this. So, I think we should run the marketing campaign next week. Oh. Oh, and and and I also thought um did you see what the team said about the conversion rates on the landing page? And and and oh, sorry. Uh the other thing is did you also watch the football game last night? It was a crazy game. What a wild night. And and actually, sorry, let let's let's um stay on topic and talk about uh the football game at lunch because that's where we should talk about football, not not in the middle of a team meeting. Oh, by the way, did you want to head out for lunch today or do you want to eat in because I think we also need to rethink the budget that we're spending on the marketing campaign as well. Oh, far out. Making this video just makes me feel bad because I used to do every single one of these things wrong. And did you notice in that example of me just rambling there? No structure, no clarity. Your brain is multitasking mid-sentence. It's trying to say something while also thinking of the next thing. And that creates fragmented speech and it sounds unsure, scattered and messy even if your ideas are brilliant. And that's the painful part. Master communicators do this instead. They start a thought, they finish it, then they pause and then they move on to the next idea. Here's the example. Listen team, we should launch the campaign next week. Let's make sure the whole team is aligned on that as a goal. Everyone also raised a good point about the landing page. Let's put in a plan for conversion rate optimization. And I also want to ask you all for a big favor. We might have to do a working lunch today. Is everyone cool with that? Is everyone okay with that? Those were the same ideas, but now that they're structured, it's digestible. It's more persuasive. And let me ask you this. Have you ever had a great idea, but halfway through explaining it, you could see people getting confused? Look, we've all been there. You're not the problem. Your structure is. And that's why I want to show you a simple three-step framework to make you a better communicator. And that's cognitive habit number two, learn to use frameworks. Let's use an example here together. Let's say you were talking to your boss about releasing an online course with a tight timeline for the business. And often without frameworks, this is how we would do it. This is how you do it, right? You do it like this. Um, hey boss, I'm so sorry about this, but I was looking at where we are with this current project and what has to be done by the editing team and the marketing team agrees with me because I've talked to them about it and I've also talked to the general manager and they said that if if I don't tell you this, I mean, I need to tell you this, we're going to need more people on the project because if we don't get extra support, I don't think we're going to be able to hit the deadline and we will disappoint a lot of customers because we sent out six promotional emails saying that it's going to be ready in 4 weeks. And if it's not ready in 4 weeks, what's that going to do to our branding? Oh man, I said it and it was hard to listen to and I was the one talking. So, here's a simple framework and it's called CCC and it stands for context, core, and connect. And what this framework does is it allows you to turn complex ideas and explain them in a way that actually makes sense and in a way that's simple. Here's how it works. Context. Set the scene. Give people the why before the what. Most people rush towards the what their content. Don't give them context first. Then you move to the core. Deliver the main idea. Keep it clear. Keep it simple. And there should only be one main idea here. And then connect. Show them why it matters to them, the relevance. So, for example, if you bring that all together, here's how it works. Hey boss, as you know, we're about to release the new online course and the timing is tight. Look, we are going to need extra editors if you want to meet the deadline. This is going to allow us to finish on time and without burning the team out and at the same time protect the brand. That's the power of frameworks. You stop overexplaining. You stop losing people and you go from rambling to resonating. And beautiful communication is when you're able to be clear, concise, and coherent. And look, if you're new around here and you want to learn more frameworks because after learning CCC, you're like, "Wow, I love frameworks." Then I teach three of the most powerful frameworks in the world of communication inside a free 2-hour master class that I've recorded for you. And if you want access to that, just click the link below in the description or click the link in the pinned comment down below. When you learn these frameworks in this free master class that I recorded for you, you are going to learn how to answer questions on the spot in the moment while under pressure. You're going to love it. Go check it out. And now, let's get on to the final cognitive habit. If you learn how to use this final cognitive habit, you're going to be to explain complex ideas with absolute ease. I remember this one time my mom was trying to explain to my dad how compounding interest works. Mom was the book smart one. Dad wasn't. And this is how mom explained it to dad. Okay. Okay honey, you the ready to learn. Okay. The compounding interest is the exponential growth where the interest start to acrew not only on the principle but also on the previously accumulated interest. Huh? You understand Hane? So stupid. It's so ridiculous, right? Because while I was listening to my mom, I didn't understand it. My dad didn't understand it. So, do you know what my mom did? She said the exact same thing. She just said it slower. And just by saying the exact same thing slower, she expected him to get it. Yeah. My dad and I, we still didn't get it. So, the next time someone doesn't get what you're saying, instead of just explaining it slower or harder, explain it differently with an analogy. Analogies are shortcuts to understanding. They take something complex and they tie it to something simple and familiar. And that's what makes them powerful. It connects the unknown to the known. Now, let's go back to the example of my mom trying to explain compounding interest to my dad. Instead of using that overly complex definition, she should have just used the classic snowball analogy. Compounding interest is like rolling a snowball downhill. At first, it's really small, but as it rolls, it picks up more snow. And the bigger it gets, the faster it grows. The earlier you start rolling investing, the bigger your snowball becomes. And it's actually scary how big the snowball can get. And if you start rolling, investing early, soon the snowball rolls faster than you can run. That's way easier to digest, right? And because my mom was always the more educated one in the family, she would always educate my dad and me and her sisters. And because of that, my dad was able to buy his dream car when I was young. My dad, yes, he had a dream sports car. He owned a Nissan 300Z. Oh my god, it was one of the most sexiest cars I've ever seen in my life. And yes, that right there you see is me trying to get in his sports car and take it for a spin. Get back on point, Finn. When you use analogies, you tap into visual memory, emotional resonance, and real world logic all at once. Analogies do three things. First, they make your message stick. Two, they make complex ideas simple. And three, they make you relatable and more memorable. So, if you want to be remembered, stop explaining and start connecting the complex and the unknown with the familiar and the known. These nine habits have completely changed the way I communicate and more importantly, how I connect with others. The better you speak, the more of your true self the world gets to me. And if you ever doubted the power of your voice, let me leave you with this beautiful quote by Maya Angelo who says, "People will forget what you've said. People will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel." So go practice. Go get better. Not to impress anyone, but rather to connect more deeply. Because when you speak more clearly, with more clarity, with more confidence, and with more care, guess what? people start to listen. And if you're still craving more communication lessons, if this has not quenched your thirst, then keep going. Dive deeper. Click this video here and see how deep this rabbit hole actually goes. I warn you, once you dump down this next rabbit hole, you may never get

----
Why You’re Working Hard But Still Falling Behind (Master These Skills)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qgSB0F7X3c&t=479s
If you feel like you're working hard but still falling behind, this will make sense. After serving as a CEO and board member of many tech companies, I started noticing a surprising pattern in those who succeed versus those who don't. These are seven highincome habits, each inspired by a legendary mind that just might rewire how you think, how you work, and how you grow. First up is anxiety. Anxiety is not your enemy. It's your edge, but it's a superpower only if you know how to harness it. Jensen Hang is the CEO of Nvidia as we know and his company has helped spark the AI revolution and is now worth over $3 trillion. But according to his biographer, Wong is fueled almost entirely by negative emotions like anxiety. Even today, after all this success, he gets anxious, but he doesn't suppress it. He channels it to be productive. The highest paid professionals in every industry share this counterintuitive trait. They have learned to harness anxiety in high stakes situations. I know this from my personal experience in business or as a performing musician. I've had hundreds of opportunities to perform on stage, but I can't remember a single one where I was not nervous or anxious before stepping on stage every single time. And neuroscience backs this up too. It's called the Yorkis Dodson law. It talks about an optimal zone of performance. So my loose interpretation here is that there is a zone between extreme panic and extreme boredom where your cognitive performance is optimal and that often is the sweet spot where high-income performers usually operate because risk responsibility and rewards are interconnected. So I used to think about it this way. Anxiety is not a fire alarm. It's a wakeup alarm. It's your brain saying, "Hey, wake up and pay attention. This is important. You can try this. First, rehearse like a lot. Whether it's a pitch or a negotiation or a job interview, practice under pressure. Prepare well. Do the research. Practice delivery. Second, expect anxiety to be there and label it early as it arises and tell yourself, "This is anxiety and I'm fine with it." And third, track your anxiety to income correlation. Notice how your biggest career breakthroughs often follow your most nerve-wracking challenges. The anxiety income equation looks exactly like the riskreward equation. In most cases, high income and high pressure tend to travel together. So if you want the first, you have to master the second. Next up, how do you build immunity to any virus? Get exposed to it. This is called anti-fragility. Systems that gain strength from the thread itself. Nasim Talib discovered this principle almost everywhere he looked. He thought of three systems. First fragile systems which breaks under stress like glass for example. Second robust systems now they resist stress but they don't change much like a rock. And third are the anti-fragile systems. They get better because of the stress. So muscles immune system evolution those are great examples. The more volatility hits that system the stronger it becomes. So, what many highinccome performers learn over time is this. They don't just develop resilience to stress, they get stronger because of it. Here's what you may want to try. First, seek out manageable stress so you can build a muscle. For instance, speak up when it's uncomfortable in a meeting or reach out to someone to ask for advice or try to get a project that's harder for you to deliver. You will be surprised to see how all of it becomes easier over time. Second, add a little bit of control chaos in your routines. What I do is I add new things to my routine. So, I'll use new tools, for example, new software. I'll go to new places or try new foods. These are controlled experiments that disrupt your routine and that also builds muscles. And third, create optionality. Multiple income streams, diverse skills, broad network. Always think in terms of plan A, plan B, plan C. While others are going to build emotional bunkers and hide insight, you could be building an anti-fragility hatch to get stronger from the stress caused by uncertainty. The third habit is to have psychological leverage. The most valuable skill in any room isn't what you know, it's how well you know the people in that room. If you can't read people, you can move mountains. A famous socialite once had dinner with two legendary prime ministers on backtoback nights, William Gladstone and Benjamin Draeli. When asked about both of them, she said, "When I left the table after dinner with Mr. Gladstone. I felt he was the smartest man in England. But after my dinner with Mr. Dizraeli, I felt like I was the smartest woman in England. That's what I call psychological leverage. When you meet someone who shows genuine curiosity about you, something fascinating happens to you neurologically. Researchers call it neural coupling. Your brain literally syncs with theirs. Psychological leverage then is not about manipulations. It's about being present, paying full attention to others, making genuine investments in them. That's what reading the room means, at least to me. And this concept points to a deeper theme. The tools may change, the technologies may change, but the human desires and the needs don't change much. So in every highinccome role, sales or leadership or business ownership or investments or movie direction, whatever it is, your success depends on how clearly you can understand what others want, what they fear, what they expect. And today we all know the most important social currency is attention, right? So people want to be seen, they want to be heard. And if you can give them attention without acting like a suckup, then your career trajectory will invariably change. So how do we build this real psychological leverage? Let's try some tactical actions. First, map the humans, not just the orc charts. Learn about your teams, their families, what makes them tick. Learn their patterns. Learn what drives them. Second, make curiosity your default mode. People remember how you make them feel, not how much you know. Be full of curiosity. Ask more than answer. Make them the hero of your story and they will remember you. Third, learn about various cognitive biases. All of us have them. I have them. Confirmation bias, recency bias, anchoring bias, authority bias. All of that will give you a framework to understand human behavior. Next is number four, metacognition or the art of thinking about thinking. Warren Buffett and Charlie Mer were not just great investors. They thought about their thinking differently. Mer once said, "I never allow myself to have an opinion on anything without knowing the other side's argument better than they do." That right there is metacognition. And there's a lot of research available. Metaanalysis of all the research in frontier psychology showed that in complex roles which tend to be the high income roles, our metacognition is a better predictor of performance than our IQ level. And metacognition is more than being present or being self-aware. Most of us are driven by autopilot, right? By habits, biases, intuition. Metacognition helps you interrupt those default modes. It gives you some kind of a feedback loop. So, it's like you're not only playing the game, but also reviewing the tape to make the plays better. So, if you want to hone the skill of thinking about thinking, here are a couple of things you can try. First, ask yourself questions like, "What made me think that way?" or "What made me do that?" When you succeed or fail, try to investigate the assumptions, not just the outcome. Second, explain your thinking to yourself or others out loud. I talk out loud to myself all the time. Before any highstakes move, I talk through my structure and my logic to a peer or to myself. And by the way, Jensen Hong famously does this. He is known for walking his leadership team through his thinking process, especially when he hasn't made up his mind. And he says it actually helps him gain clarity because that process reveals the gap in his own thinking, in his own argument. That's a great example of how metacognition turns insights into income. That brings us to one of my favorites, the 70% rule. It's called decision velocity. Jeff Bezos pushed his leaders to make decisions with 70% confidence. Not 100%, not 80%, 70%. Because he believed that most decisions are two-way doors. If it's not right, you can walk it back. Because in high velocity environment, the cost of delay is often greater than the cost of mistakes. Decisiveness then is just courage with a clock on it. Think about Michael Jordan taking that three-pointer shot. It's a split-second decision. He doesn't have any time to analyze all the variables. So, he has trained for years to make such a split-second decision in a blink of an eye. Tim Cook has an even more interesting test. And he says if the decision feels comfortable, it's probably not bold enough. That discomfort is a signal that he seeks out. This kind of decision velocity, the 70% rule shows up everywhere. If we study a lot of people who rose fast, we see that they are wrong more often than they're right, but they make moves more often with incomplete information and that's how they learn faster than the rest. So, here's how you can learn to improve your decision velocity. First, label the door. Is this decision a one-way door or a two-way door? You will see that many, many decisions in our lives are reversible. And if they are, then move fast. Second, act on 70%. When you've got enough to be directionally correct, make a move. Make small decisions fast enough to build that velocity. Now, I'm not saying that leave your job tomorrow or invest $100,000 in a stock you just fell in love with this morning. None of that. Of course, we want to be decisive, not reckless. But like Jordan, you'll never know for sure if that shot will go in. And in certain situations, you won't have the luxury of time to analyze every single variable. Still, if you want to win, you've got to train your mind to take that shot. All right. Habit number six, productive failure. We need to be okay to lose. Roger Federer played more than 1,500 singles matches and lost 46% of points throughout his career. So he lost nearly half the time, but he's still considered the goat. Why? Because I think Federer understood something profound about tennis and life. Here are his three incredible insights. First, every tennis match has the same outcome. One person wins, the other flies home wondering about that one shot they should have made. That's life. We all have that list called, "Oh, I should have done that." Right? Second, it's just a point. You lose your serve. Okay? But now it's behind you. Now fully commit to the next shot. You lose only when you quit. You've lost a point, not the game. And third, and this is my all-time favorite, effortless is a myth. Masters that make it look easy work really, really hard. thousands and thousands of reps after reps after reps. And it's not their gift, it's their grit that makes them successful. Overnight success takes 5,000 nights. These insights suggest that Federer has a very different relationship with failure. He knows that at the highest level of performance, margins are impossibly thin. And highincome earners also understand that failure is just feedback. It's just data for improvement. Here's what we can do to adopt Roger Federra's mindset. First, separate outcome from process. Did you execute your plan? Are you putting in your reps? Second, we got to remember life is bigger than any single moment of success and failure. It's just a point. And third, if you watch Federer's incredible tiebreakers on YouTube, you realize that his brilliance comes from how fast he's able to recommit after a mistake. That's something we can practice as well. As Federer said, win or lose, all you have to do is play the next point. And that brings us to habit number seven. The most powerful thing we can put into our work is care and love. People will feel it even if they can't explain why. When you care, it shows. Johnny IV is the legendary designer behind Apple's most iconic products. And he has a unique perspective. He says, "What we make defines who we are. It shows our gratitude for those who use what we make." It's a great craft person's mindset. I was moved by it when I heard it. For IV, the output of his work is all about love and care. It's an act of giving. It's an act of moral responsibility toward others. He often quoted Freud, "Love and work. Work and love. That's all there is." And if you're incredibly lucky, like I've was or like I was, then those two would be the same thing. This mindset truly sets you up on a path to any highinccome role because it gives you a sense of ownership, a sense of gratitude, an uncanny depth of focus that's increasingly rare in today's distracted world. So when you deliver something at work and you've infused a lot of care into it, you will see details others would miss. You know, these are the things that open doors for you quietly and keep them open permanently. So, here are some things you could try to build care into your output. First, you can slow down before rushing into execution. Slow down to set the intention. Why does this matter? Why do I care? What would excellence feel like here? Second, express your care through details. Crisp writing, clear design, no bugs in your output, that extra polish. Think about it. Apple thought about the design aesthetics inside the phone. No one would see it, but for them, those details matter. Third, find joy in your work. Joy and humor are missing nowadays. Bring them back in your work. In a world chasing fast and loud, care is quiet, but it's unforgettable. Because in business and in life, folks who truly care are truly rare. So these are the seven high income habits. If you step back and take a look, you will see that they are all connected. Anxiety gives you energy. Anti-fragility helps you use chaos as fuel. Psychological leverage helps you understand others. Metacognition optimizes your thinking. Decision velocity creates learning cycles. Productive failure accelerates growth and expressing care through work makes it all joyful and meaningful. So here's the invitation. Just start with one or two. You know, pick your favorite ones. My two favorites are 70% rule and expressing care through our output. But hey, you pick yours. Test them for a while. See if they fit. If they work, keep going. If they don't, make changes. That's the whole point. High income earners are highinccome learners. If you found this video valuable, hey, please subscribe. Also, check out my video on how to build wealth and success without owning a business or starting a tech company. Thank you for watching. Stay curious, stay thoughtful, and please stay kind. I'll see you next week. Thank you and I love

----
Brain Hack: 6 secrets to learning faster, backed by neuroscience | Lila Landowski | TEDxHobart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kKvK2foOTJM&t=907s
Transcriber: Anna Kalynchuk Reviewer: Michael Nystrom I'm angry. And I’m angry because I wish I knew this when I was younger. So I’m a neuroscientist and a lecturer. And as a neuroscientist, I study the brain and the nerves that span out into the body. And as a lecturer, I teach the next generation of healthcare professionals. And look, I see some students struggle with their learning, especially the older ones, but it’s not their fault. You know, we don't get taught how to learn. We just kind of expect it to happen. And I think the worst curse of all really is it gets harder to learn as we age. But what if I told you that there are things that we can do to learn faster and more effectively? I’m going to take you through the neuroscience behind six critical ingredients that can help you learn faster: attention, alertness, sleep, repetition, breaks, and mistakes. Now, first things first. How do we actually learn? We need neuroplasticity to happen. So neuroplasticity is the scientific term that essentially means our brain’s ability to physically change in response to experience. So when we’re learning something, whether it’s learning information or learning a skill, tiny little connections called synapses form between neighboring neurons in the brain. And the more we do that thing, whether it’s information or a skill, the more robust those connections become and the better we get at doing whatever it is. Now, what you’re looking at here are two neurons that I filmed in a petri dish connecting. Actually, this was a petri dish that I was about to throw away, but I saw they were about to connect, so I quickly took this video. Now, these incredible handlike structures here are called “growth cones,” and every neuron has one. They actively sense the environment around, and they help each and every one of the 86 billion neurons in your brain find the correct place to connect to. So, for example, from here to here, or here to here. And this isn’t learning. This doesn’t represent learning. What it represents is how our brain wires itself during development. Now, when things go wrong with that wiring process or when it doesn't happen in the usual way, you can end up with things like issues with learning and memory. Now, kids are a little bit like sponges, right? They just seem to need to be exposed to stuff, and they seem to remember it. Languages, skills, sports, whatever it is, the learning just happens really quickly. Now, have you ever met someone who’s incredibly talented, and you just thought, “Okay, they must have some magic thing about them that the rest of us don’t have.” Well, what if I told you that that's probably not true? It mostly comes down to practice, perseverance, and when in development, they started learning that skill. So the earlier, the better. And people like Serena Williams and Beethoven, they weren't born with their skills. They practiced, and they all  actually started by age five. So really, our ability to learn goes downhill after age five, (Laughter) but it certainly gets harder through our childhood, through our teens. And once we hit our mid-twenties, it gets exponentially harder to learn. But the good news is I’m going to tell you what you can do about it because there are things you can do. You can use attention, alertness, sleep, repetition, breaks, and mistakes to make your learning better. So first things first. In order to learn, we need to pay attention, right? Attention is a really important function. So, for example, if I were to ask you to close your eyes and focus on your contact between your feet and the floor, you’ll suddenly be aware of maybe the texture of your socks, maybe how tight your shoes are, maybe how firm the floor is. And you weren’t aware of any of that a second ago. And what that means is that we have the ability to choose how much attention we pay to something. And studies have shown that when we are fully focused on a task, we are more likely to retain that information, especially for the long term. Now, until the last little blip in human history, we have never had to work this hard to pay attention. Like, let’s be honest, how many times do you find yourself rereading or replaying something because you got a bit distracted? Right? Yeah. We are designed to focus on one thing at a time. There’s no secret that the frequent context switching that happens when we use social media, so scrolling through our phones and seeing lots of different bits of completely unrelated bits of information like news, ads, you know, cat videos. That results in significantly measurable attention deficits. So I’m not saying it causes ADHD, but studies have shown that if you use your phone for more than an hour in teens, that results in these attention deficits. So try and use your phone a little bit less. Now, if you wanted to improve your attention in the long term, there are things like focused attention meditation that you can do to improve that. And if you wanted to improve your attention in the really short term, well, you can actually just exercise. I know you’re thinking: “Oh, well, my doctor always says I have to exercise and eat well.” But hear me out for a second. Did you know that exercise can actually increase the size of the part of your brain involved in learning and memory? It also helps you make new brain cells. And studies have shown that regular exercise improves memory. It improves cognition, so your ability to think. And just 20 minutes of moderate exercise - so not even, you know, intense exercise - that will actually improve your attention for about two hours afterwards. So here’s what you should do: if you’re sitting down to study, go for a jog, do some star jumps. It’s even better if you challenge your balance. If you’re at work, run up and down the stairs. There are lots of things that you can do to make this happen. Next, we have... (Air horn blasts) alertness. (Laughter) In order to learn, you’ve got to be alert, right? It's not rocket science. But he’s the thing. If you’re not fully focused on a task, then you’re going to have a harder time retaining that information. Activating our body’s fight-or-flight system or activating our sympathetic nervous system, as it’s also known, results in the release of things like adrenaline and noradrenaline, and amongst other things, that will increase our alertness. So what are some other things that we can do to increase our fight-or-flight system? Because obviously, we can’t go around blasting air horns all the time. Well, again, exercise - a bit of a recurring theme here. You can do certain breathing techniques like Wim Hof breathing. You can even end your shower with a bit of a cold blast of water because that will certainly make you feel very alert. And we also know that stress will do the same thing. So we know that if you sit down to learn after a small stressor - like this, for example - that will enhance your learning. So what can you do? You can have too much stress, though, as you can see that I’m experiencing right now. So when you have been experiencing long-term stress or chronic stress, it physically changes our brain, and it causes issues with learning and memory. So if you have been experiencing stress for a long period of time, you will have impairments in memory. It is that simple, so do be kind to yourself. But little bits of stress are good. They actually help you reach peak performance. And we know that having a little bit of an increase in adrenaline after a learning task will actually enhance your learning as well. Now you can also ingest substances to enhance your alertness, things like caffeine. And there’s a growing body of evidence now that shows that having caffeine before a learning task or actually just being a regular caffeine drinker can enhance your learning and memory through a range of different mechanisms in the brain. We know that, for example, if you eat, you are less alert because that’s switching off our fight-or-flight system. So maybe don’t sit down to study after a big meal. There’s also a limit to our alertness as well. So it's still a little bit contentious, but studies have shown that we are constantly going through what we call an “ultradian rhythm.” So about every 90 minutes, we’re going in and out of peak alertness. So the reality is you can’t be 100% alert all the time, and it’s going to be a chunk of about 8 to 30 minutes in the middle there we will be most alert. Now, another thing for alertness is sleep. Yes, if you haven’t been sleeping, then, yes, you won’t be as alert. But sleep is really important for learning for another reason. So sleep serves a really important constellation of functions. So, for example, it resets our immune system, it resets our metabolism, it resets our emotional control, and it even gets rid of the waste that builds up in our brain over the course of the day. But sleep is actually critical for memory consolidation, so for turning short-term memories into long-term memories. There’s a particular part of the brain called the hippocampus, which is important for learning and memory. So when you do stuff throughout the day, your hippocampus is keeping track of that. It’s a bit like a diary. So if I were to ask you what you were doing before you sat down to listen to this talk, you’re using your hippocampus to recall that information. But it only keeps information there for the short term. And when you sleep, all of those short-term memories get flitted off to other parts of the brain, the cortex, and turned into long-term memories. So if you don’t sleep, you can’t turn those short-term memories into long-term memories. And that’s why sleep is so important for learning. That’s why pulling an all-nighter and cramming is the worst thing you can do for study because you are not going to retain that information for the long term. So really, here's what you should do. Make sure you prioritize your sleep before you study, just so you can be a bit more alert, but also really prioritize that study after learning because you will need that to retain that information for the long term. Now, the old adage says that practice makes perfect, but there's so much truth to that because repetition is key when it comes to learning. Repetition is key when it comes to learning. It's not enough to just hear or see something once and expect to remember it forever. Just like exercising builds muscle, repetitive patterns of thinking or doing things will reinforce those pathways and those connections in the brain associated with doing that thing, so it'll become easier to recall. So through the process of neuroplasticity, you’re making these brand-new connections. And that takes energy, requires fatty acids, requires lots of little proteins to be made. It’s a big job. It takes a lot of energy. And the brain’s not going to want to invest all of this energy in creating these new connections if it’s something that you’ve only done once, right? That is why repetition is so important for learning. It’s basically flagging to your brain at the cellular level that “Hey, this is the thing that  keeps coming up in my life. So in order to be more efficient, I need to reinforce this and do it better.” So here's what you should do. Repeat the thing that you are trying to learn as many times as you can in that learning period, and use the spacing technique. So space your learning out over multiple days so that way your learning has a chance to build on those new long-term memories. We know that two shorter learning periods over different days will result in significantly better learning than using that same amount of time on a single day. Sometimes we can learn things in one go. And this is a thing called “one-trial learning” in psychology and neuroscience. And it basically happens when there’s a really strong emotional component tied to that experience. So, for example, if it makes us really happy or really sad or scared, especially if it makes us afraid, actually, and there’s a really important biological reason for that if you think about it. So your brain wants to remember in exquisite detail everything to do with that scary event. So that way, you know how to respond the next time you encounter it or just so you can avoid it completely. And when things go wrong with that process, you can end up with things like PTSD. Breaks are incredibly important for learning as well. And there are two main reasons for that. So, first of all, it gives our brains a chance to replay that information. It happens completely subconsciously. So, for example, if you were learning a sequence on the piano, then if you were to take a ten-second break afterwards, your brain will actually be brain recording so that you’ll be replaying that sequence, and you’ll be doing it 20 times faster. And it looks like it might be even better if you spend 10 to 20 minutes afterwards either just having a quiet break - no phones, of course - having a nap or doing a round of nonsleep, deep rest. Now, the other reason why breaks are important is because that newly encoded information isn’t very stable. And if you were to use those same networks to learn something else soon afterwards, what will happen is that newly encoded information can be destroyed in a process called “retrograde interference.” And in kids, they stabilize pretty quickly, within a few minutes. But in adults, as far as we know, they’re still unstable after an hour, maybe longer. So here’s what you should do. Make sure you take a 10- to 20-minute break after you finish learning. And if you're at work, well, then just try and do those mundane tasks that you can do without thinking too much and wait at least an hour before trying to learn something similar, preferably do it on a different day. Next, we have mistakes, and I know making mistakes is terrifying. It is really scary, but there’s a biological reason behind that. So that feeling of anxiety and stress you get when you make a mistake, it serves a really important purpose. So when you make a mistake, what happens is you’re releasing neuromodulators like acetylcholine, and you're getting increased activity in your focused attention networks. And that increase in attention and that feeling of anxiety serves a really important purpose. It’s basically saying to us, “Hey, you made a mistake. You need to change and do better and become more efficient.” And it's opening up this window for neuroplasticity. So, whatever happens next, your brain is ready to take in. Now, if you make a mistake and you feel a bit anxious, and you walk away, well, ‘A’, you’re not going to learn that thing, and ‘B’, well, you’re actually learning to be less able to cope with failure. Here’s what you should do. You should set yourself up for a little bit of failure, right? Quiz yourself on that topic as you go. Don’t wait until you’re ready. If you’re learning something - for example, soccer - don’t just kick it straight at the goal. Change the angle. Make it more difficult, so you make mistakes. Don't wait for everything to be perfect before you have a go, because at the end of the day if you make a mistake, you'll be releasing neuromodulators that improve your attention. And if you get it right, you’ll be releasing things like dopamine in your reward circuits, which makes you feel good, which makes you feel more motivated and consolidates the learning of the thing that you just did correctly, right? So that’s why turning our learning into a bit of a game can work so well. It’s a bit of a win-win situation for our brain either way, right? So when you make a mistake, you know, don't view that anxiety as a bad thing. Lean into that feeling and keep going because it's really your brain's way of helping you be your best. It’s helping you be better than the person that you were yesterday. So, as you can see, I’m not angry anymore. I’m still quite nervous. (Laughter) But that’s because by understanding the brain, I know that you have the keys to unlock your potential to learn faster and more effectively. Those keys are attention, alertness, sleep, repetition, breaks, and mistakes. So next time you’re sitting down to learn, get rid of those distractions, increase your attention, increase your alertness, maybe through a little bit of exercise, repeat the thing that you are trying to do as many times as you can in that training period, and repeat it over multiple days, making sure that you prioritize that sleep in between. Embrace your mistakes, and make sure you take a 10- to 20-minute break after learning because your brain is going to thank you. And now I’m going to thank you for your attention, and I hope you learnt something new. (Applause)

----
If I Wanted to Become a Millionaire in 2026, I’d Do This with AI
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nqx0QjHQ9ww
As we speak, AI is creating a new class of millionaires. And it's not just coders or Silicon Valley insiders. It's regular people who know how to think like startup founders. I have served as a CEO, board member, and investor at tech companies worth billions. And here's what most people misunderstand. In 2026, becoming a millionaire with AI is not about thinking in straight lines. It's about building loops that let you outarn and outpace everyone else so your wealth can actually compound. But before we dive into these loops, you need to know the world that will create your 7igure net worth. There is a massive financial shift happening in the market and our brains aren't ready for it. There are two things human brains are never able to grasp. One is exponential growth and second is self-improving systems. Now they're both interconnected but in 2026 the entire economy will migrate to these two ideas simultaneously. Chat GPT reached 100 million users in 60 days and it was faster than any app in the history of tech. And then came Sora 2, OpenAI's video tool and it got to 1 million downloads faster than Chat GPT. And it's not just tools. It's happening to AI companies. Startups like Cursor and Perplexity are reaching $und00 million in revenue in 12 to 18 months. The world we live in is all about fast feedback loops and they're showing up everywhere. In coding, in capital, in career, in companies. This is how the best builders are thinking in 2026. Not in sequential timelines, but in self-reinforcing loops. The winners in 2026 will be the ones building the fastest feedback loops. Here's loop number one, the balance loop. Running any AI business in 2026 that can generate millions for you is not about work life balance. It's about balancing on a tight rope between two opposite forces. Your asymmetric advantage and your customers acute pain. Let's look at the first force. I know an investment banker who spent 20 years and he closed more than 100 deals. Last year he was laid off AI. So he raised a little capital, told his network he was looking to buy businesses and then evaluated hundreds of businesses really quickly and found a small company in a very narrow niche, insurance claims processing. He bought that company, infused AI into every workflow and processes and the company took off. Now, doing the due diligence and picking the right business model was his asymmetric advantage. What's yours? Maybe you experience some customer problem firsthand. Or you spend a decade in a legacy system or process that most people won't understand. That would be your asymmetric advantage. However, here's the second opposing force. The acute pain felt by your customers. Ask yourself, what specific frustration can I fix? That's urgent, that's frequent, and that's painful. Don't chase billion-dollar markets. Fix thousand frustrations that happen a million times. Now, here is the continuous balancing act that you have to do. If you focus on your strength, but your product or service is not serving as a painkiller, you get a clever product that nobody urgently needs or pays for, and you will slip up the tight rope. On the other hand, if you chase the most acute pain, but if you don't really have a real advantage versus other startups or incumbents, then you're in a brutal market where you have no edge. You'll be commoditized and you'll trip off that tight rope once again. So, your advantage and their pain define the forces you have to balance. So, how do you keep your balance when you're walking that type of assumption testing? ask constantly, what am I assuming? And what's the fastest way to validate my biggest assumptions? Because that's where the risks are. Every idea is an untested belief. But today with AI, you can test in hours instead of months. And that's why this balancing act becomes a constant loop. You lean to your right a little bit, then you have to lean to your left a little bit. But as long as you staying on the tight rope, life is good. Asymmetric advantage, acute pain, assumption testing, balance loop activated. That's how you go from interesting to indispensable. This is where your money curve also starts bending upwards. You're not a generic meto company, right? You have your own lane. So, the key action item for you is to try this. Step one, write down your asymmetric advantages. Step two, list three candidate pains that fit your customer profile. Step three, uncover your assumptions and start testing quickly with AI. All the information, all the intelligence you need is right there at your fingertips. You've got to know where to look. Loop number two, the speed to revenue loop. Cursor is a platform that lets developers code with AI. They went from 0 to 100 million in the first 18 months and then 100 to 500 million a year later. Fastest growth in enterprise software history ever. Millions of programmers now use it daily. Even Open AI uses Cursor to build its own software. So how did Cursor grow so fast in the midst of such a terrible red ocean full of sharks? They focused on one thing, speed. Cursor ships new features every single day. In the old world, that would be a suicide. That would be seen as reckless. Software features were bunched up in a big fat release every 6 to9 months. But cursor does not have 6 to9 months. They have to build in public, learn in real time, fix fast, stay ahead of the curve. That's the loop. But there is a deeper layer there too. They are dog fooding their own AI. So the employees at Cursor use cursor to build cursor. I think that's genius. So basically that's how you chase a moving target without crashing into it. Now here's why this matters to you as you think about your product market fit in 2026. Keep your eyes out not just for your biggest competitors but also on the AI foundation models themselves. Because when Chad GPT6 or Gemini 4 drops, it's possible that your product's value could evaporate overnight. And that's why the old ideas of building a neat quarterly road map is completely dead. If you're building an AI software startup, you can't plan 18 months ahead when AI shifts underneath your feet every week. The idea of product market fit is not a destination. It's a moving target. You chase it daily. Follow the loop. Launch, learn, level up. Launch, learn, level up. Keep repeating. The more you learn, the more you earn. Loop number three, signal to innovation loop. This is how you stay alive when everything keeps getting copied. Let me give you two stories. One company that is obsessed with signals to learn about customers and one that mostly thought it knew everything about customers. Let's talk about YouTube first. On the surface, YouTube is where we go for education, for entertainment. We watch videos. But beneath the video delivery system, YouTube is a deep AI platform with unparalleled data and thousands of AI and machine learning algorithms working in the background. Every single thing you see on that browse screen is an experiment. It's a test. the thumbnails, the titles, which row it appears in, what appears first when you open the app, how soon that video comes back if you ignored it yesterday, what suggested videos show up next to the one you're watching. None of that is random. None of it is a coincidence. It's not like the YouTube CEO and the content team get together every day and ask, "What content do we think people will like? We'll deliver that." They don't do that. They ask, "How can I learn from what viewers are actually doing every day, every second?" All of those micro behaviors roll back into the AI system. And YouTube uses it to improve recommendations and increase watch time, which in turn creates more data, which helps the AI models to learn more faster. That allows them to produce better recommendations. So, we watch more and ask the loop. The more you use it, the more you will use it. Now, the contrast. Quibby. Quibby was a short form mobile video app. It was launched sometime in 2020. It was backed by big Hollywood names like Jeffrey Katzenberg. Me Wittmann was involved and they raised about $1.75 billion. Then roughly 6 months after launch, they shut down. His entire library was sold to Roku later for under $und00 million. That's over a billion half dollars down the drain. Now on paper, they had everything. Stars, budget, hype, great leadership. What they did not really have was a tight signal loop. They launched with a big fixed idea of how people should watch. Short episodes, phone only, paid subscription. So far so good. But then they spent most of their energy defending that idea instead of obsessively listening to what the data was saying. Downloads spiked up front, but then everything stalled. Trial users open the app once or twice and then disappeared. No learning loops. The point is that YouTube and Quibby were both chasing the same idea. 10-minute videos on your phone. And both had money, both had talent. The difference is that one treated user behavior as the single source of innovation and the other did not. One was built like an AI company. The other was built like a media company in 2026. That is your real shield. Not just a clever feature in your product or a slightly better model, but how quickly you notice reality changing and how quickly you adjust to it. Your product can be cloned. Your landing page can be copied. Your business model can be ripped off in an afternoon. But if you're addicted to a strong signal loop and learning from what your users are actually doing, it will change the speed of your innovation. And that is hard to copy. Ask yourself three questions, simple questions. Where are my signals coming from? How often do I look at them? And what signal loops am I building? Your user feedback is your best R&D lab. Loop number four, the sweat equity loop. There is a popular myth, a piece of advice that a lot of new founders get from board members and VCs. They hear stuff like, oh, you know, hire the best people and get out of their way. And I shake my head in disbelief every time I hear it. Because in 2026, if you are an AI native founder, this advice will be completely fatal for you because your job is not to delegate and disappear, especially when you're in a startup phase. Your job is to sweat every single detail because an AI product is not like a static piece of software or service that you can build and ship out and wash your hands until the next release that comes 9 months later. That is the life of a founder. But this is the loop that quietly turns your sweat equity into actual net worth. This is why you have to have the deepest conviction in what you're building. That will give you the obsessive grit that you need to stay in the game, stay in the trenches, and see it through when the rest of the 99% would quit. All that unseen work, the late nights, the quiet persistence, that's your foundation. The world may never see it, but it's at the root of everything you do, and it's the only thing that holds steady when the storm hits. And you're going to say, "Okay, but what if after all that obsessive work, you stumble and fall?" That's all right, because falling is not failing. Let me share a quote that my spiritual master used to tell me. The whole forest lives in a single leaf. Every leaf must fall someday. And when it falls, it doesn't fail. It feeds the soil and gives birth to something entirely new. The forest lives in that leap. So if you fall, you will still give birth to something even more valuable, wisdom. And if you zoom out and think about it, wealth without wisdom won't last anyway. So the real question is who you are becoming as you run these loops. because what you end up leaving behind may become someone else's beginning. And that's the most mysterious and valuable loop of all. If you like this video, here's another one I think you'll enjoy. Thank you and I love

----
Get Ahead of 99% of People by Thinking Backwards (Inversion Explained)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wC_Oosh1Mw
most people spend their lives thinking only forward what they want and how to get it and that's fine if you're aiming for pretty average results but if you're aiming for something extraordinary like the top 1% then you need to think differently because the greatest thinkers in history didn't just think forward they also thought backward it's a mental model called inversion and in this video I'm going to show you exactly how it works with real examples and practical ways to start using it today this model has completely changed the way I think and make decisions and I hope it can do the same for you now let's bring this model to life with a story part one the man who saved countless lives during World War II the military had a serious problem too many planes were getting shot down to fix it analysts started studying the planes that made it back from combat the idea was simple figure out where those planes were getting hit then reinforce those areas with more armor they examined them closely recording every bullet hole every bit of shrapnel damage and patterns started to emerge some areas like the wings and fuselage were riddled with bullet holes others like the engines or the cockpit were almost untouched so the logical conclusion was to add more armor to the areas that were getting hit the most but then comes a statistician named Abraham Wald and he sees something everyone else missed he made an observation they were only looking at the planes that survived think about it these planes took damage and still made it home so the bullet holes we're seeing those hits weren't fatal but the planes that got hit in the engine or cockpit they never returned so the conclusion is actually the opposite of what people assumed don't reinforce the places with bullet holes reinforce the places with no damage because that's where a hit is fatal wald had just applied inversion instead of focusing only on the planes that survived he shifted his attention to the ones that didn't make it back he looked at the problem from the opposite side and that simple shift in perspective saved lives that's the power of inversion part two the two faces of inversion we can think about inversion in two simple ways the first is starting with the end in mind the second is flipping your goal and thinking about the opposite of what you want let's start with the first this version of inversion is all about solving problems by working backwards one of the biggest champions of this idea was a German mathematician named Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobe his strategy was simple anytime he faced a tough problem he'd say "Invert always invert." So instead of attacking the problem headon he'd flip it around and ask "What would this look like?" in reverse it's kind of like solving a maze if you start from the beginning you'll probably run into dead ends wrong turns and wasted time but if you start at the finish line and work your way backwards the path gets clearer there are fewer mistakes and less guessing so instead of wandering around trying every possible route you trace a smarter path in reverse and find your way faster the second form of inversion is focusing on the opposite of what you want now this doesn't come naturally most of us are wired to think about what we do want but thinking about what you don't want can actually be easier and way more effective just like in that World War II story where focusing on the planes that crashed not just the ones that survived completely change the outcome this version of inversion was a favorite of the stoic philosophers people like Marcus Aurelius and Senica they had a practice called the premeditation of evils they'd imagine the worst things that could happen to them things like "What if I lost my job?" or "What if I became paralyzed?" or "What if my reputation got destroyed?" It might sound a little pessimistic but the point wasn't to dwell in fear it was to prepare to spot risks ahead of time and avoid them most people are obsessed with how to succeed but the Stoics also thought deeply about how not to fail and that's exactly what helped them succeed chapter 3 how to use inversion in work in life inversion is one of those tools that applies to almost every area of life for example most people stay laser focused on how to achieve success they're constantly looking for the magic strategy the secret formula but the so-called answer is often too big too vague or just too personal ask 10 people and you'll hear 10 completely different versions that alone is enough to overwhelm anyone this is where inversion becomes useful instead of chasing down the right answer you flip the entire question on its head so rather than trying to figure out how to be successful you look at what would almost guarantee failure it's a far easier question to answer and strangely enough a far more effective one because once you're clear on what leads to failure you can begin avoiding those things no need to be a genius just stay away from the obvious traps and you give yourself a real shot at building a successful life this is exactly how Charlie Mer approached life and business the legendary investor believed that a huge part of his and Warren Buffett's success came from avoiding dumb decisions not by being especially brilliant but by being consistently not stupid so often the smarter move is to study failure because understanding why people fall short can teach you more than chasing why they succeed another effective way to use inversion is something called a failure premortem think of it like a premeditation of evils but for business or any project you take the most important goal or project you're working on right now then you jump forward 6 months and you assume it failed completely flopped went down in flames now tell the story backwards what happened what mistakes did you make and what blind spots did you miss you're identifying the exact traps you might fall into before you actually do in business this approach is sometimes called the kill the company exercise you gather the team and everyone brainstorms all the ways the company could fail you kill the company on paper so you can save it in real life just like the Stoics did with life you do it with your work another powerful way to use inversion is in relationships you've probably heard the golden rule treat others how you want to be treated sounds nice but it's actually pretty bad advice because it assumes we're all the same same wants same needs same preferences but that's not how people work for example just because you like reading doesn't mean giving someone a book is a thoughtful gift for them or just because you love constant attention doesn't mean smothering someone with affection will bring you closer or just because you like surprise parties doesn't mean someone else won't find them stressful or overwhelming sometimes it does the opposite so instead of starting with what you want use inversion and flip it don't treat others how you don't want to be treated this thinking is far more effective trying to figure out how we want to be treated can be vague but almost everyone agrees on how they don't want to be treated we don't want to be lied to we don't want to be disrespected we don't want to be constantly criticized that clarity makes it easier to take action once you've identified what causes harm start removing it stop doing what breaks things that alone can strengthen almost any relationship another effective way to use inversion is with your health most people already know what they should do exercise regularly eat clean sleep well cut back on stress but knowing isn't the problem the hard part is doing which is why so many people never get around to it this is where inversion becomes really helpful instead of chasing the perfect health routine you flip the logic and think about the worst things you could do to harm your health and then simply stop doing them or at least do them less less smoking less alcohol less junk food less coffee you get the idea the same goes for mental health think about the times when you felt most anxious or drained there are always patterns sometimes it's something you do like doom scrolling the news staying up too late or saying yes to things you resent sometimes it's people those who leave you worse than they found you sometimes it's the work meaningless repetitive tasks that slowly wear you down inversion helps you see those things clearly and once you see them you can start removing them even gradually the path to better health physical or mental isn't always about doing more sometimes it's about doing less of what breaks you

----
What Really Happens When You Stop Chasing What Doesn’t Matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZOc5NpSLTk&t=13s
You know, in life, we chase everything except what matters. We sprint toward goals, then move the finish line. We live to work for getting what we're working for. I have lived both extremes. Monk and CEO, homeless and financially free, fired and building billion-dollar companies. And along the way, a handful of advice quietly changed how I saw the game and how I lived my life. It might do the same for you, too. Let's get into it. Here's the first life-changing advice I got. The fastest way to your dream job is to slow down and master the one you already have. You can't leap into the next role by sleepwalking through the current one. Years ago, I was sitting through my annual review and my boss asked me about my long-term plans and I told her I wanted to rise up to a sea level position someday to serve, to lead, to have a broader impact. And I asked her how to get there because she was the president of the company. She said three words that changed everything. Focus on today. That was it. I was a little surprised, a little humbled, no 5-year plan, no networking road map. Her advice was simple but stellar. Be great exactly where your feet are. But most of us don't focus on that. We treat our current job like a waiting room, don't we? The goal is always to catch the next train. How do you become more valuable in the future if you're not creating value right now? So, here are a few things you can try. Solve what others ignore. Start small. What are the things your team needs help on? What irritates your boss? Pick one thing. Fix one thing. Do it quietly. Do it thoughtfully. Do it skillfully. You know, use artificial intelligence. Use emotional intelligence. Use all the intelligence you have, but use it here. Use it now at your current job because your next role won't come from your resume. It'll come from your reputation. Master what's in front of you in your present. The future has a way of noticing that. Second advice, not everything that's visible is valuable. Being rich in money but poor in time isn't prosperity, it's prison. I got this advice from a CEO who was running a multi-billion dollar company. He wasn't a tech company. He was already richer than his younger self would have ever imagined. So I kept asking him when was he planning to slow down, but he wanted more. He wanted the big B, billions. Then one day the company stumbled and billions of dollars just evaporated overnight. If he had cashed out before, he could have walked away with hundreds of millions of dollars. but instead he walked away with almost nothing. Months later, we met for drinks and he shared something that was heartbreaking. He said, "You know, everyone hates me now. I've lost all my friends except the two I had in college. My advice to you, Sandep, once you have what you need, stop chasing for more." He was right. If you've already built a life you like, stop mortgaging it for a bigger one. What's the point of winning if it cost you everyone who mattered? We chase what we see because everyone else can see it too, right? Our bank balance, our fancy cars, our job titles, easy to count, easy to flex. That's why we all fall for it. You know, a couple of years ago, Deote did an interesting study and they found that 70% of high earners report feeling time starved. Seven out of 10. You may end up with success and money, but that won't buy you time or freedom if you don't make a conscious choice to prioritize those ideas. And here's something worth trying. Really ask yourself three questions. Number one, how much time do I spend with those I love? Number two, how often do I laugh with my spouse, with my kids, with my boyfriend, my girlfriend? Number three, how many days a week do I stop to feel gratitude and joy? Those are good questions to ask. The third advice came to me through a painful experience. Even the right words can blow up relationships if you say them at the wrong time. Way back when I served as the CEO of a great tech firm, I used to think good feedback meant precision, clarity, efficiency. So I would drop dozens and dozens of comments on our board deck that our team was working on over the weekend. You know, in my head I was being helpful, strategic, and thoughtful, but to the team it felt like an ambush. One day my CFO cornered me like pulled me aside in front of the elevator and he said, "You know, when you send so many comments, I appreciate it. is very helpful, but sometimes it feels like we've already lost before the game even began. And I just looked at him and I said, "Wow, you're absolutely right. I wish someone had told me this before." Because I thought I was coaching, but coaching doesn't work when it's dropped like a grenade and Google Slides 48 hours before high stakes meeting. And this is the challenge of our time for all of us. As more and more teams get spread out in different locations, it's harder to provide feedback that lands the way you intended. And the truth is this is not just a workplace issue, right? It's a human challenge. We do the same thing to our spouse, kids, friends, and co-founders. We try to be helpful. But when feedback lacks context, tone, timing, it doesn't feel like support, does it? It feels like criticism. And that's the balance we all have to strike. Feedback is like medicine. It only works when delivered in the right dose at the right time through the right system. People don't want to be judged. They want to be seen. They want to know that their efforts mattered, that they mattered, even if the results may miss the mark. That's why I now think about building what I call a trust loop before I give feedback. I'm still not good at it. I'm constantly working on it and I still make mistakes, but it's a simple five-step framework that helps ensure feedback lands as intended, constructive, not critical. First, say it in person or face to face. Don't coach through comments or Slack threads. There's no replacement for human connection. Written comments, no matter how carefully worded, can't replicate tone and empathy and nuance. Second step, affirm. Start with what's working, not just as a tactic. Like don't do what's known in business as the sandwich where you start with good, then you insert all the bad stuff and end with something good again. No, that's not what I'm talking about. This is about giving real specific recognition for effort and progress. Third step, clarify. Ask questions before offering solutions. Understand what's behind the issue. Why is it stuck? And what's happening from their perspective? Feedback from awareness is far more effective than feedback from assumption. Fourth, give feedback in private, not in public. You know, feedback doesn't need a stage. It needs a soft landing. Public corrections rarely lead to growth. They lead to embarrassment, shutdown, resentment. Why do that? And fifth, have a real conversation, not a commentary. Sit down or go for a walk. Have a real talk. Make it safe to have a dialogue, not a monologue. I have learned one thing after spending decades in sea level positions. People don't change because they are corrected. They change because they feel understood. When they feel safe, they open up. When they feel judged, they shut down. So always remember, correction without connection will always sound like rejection. The fourth advice I got was this. The growth mindset makes us successful, but it can also make us restless. There was a time in Mumbai when I was homeless. I was lost. So when I had the opportunity to restart my life in Boston and in New York, I of course poured every waking moment in my 20s and 30s into working and learning and building my career. It made sense, right? The plan was simple. Grind now, enjoy later. But now when I look back, I realize what was actually happening. It was grind now and grind later because I got really lucky and by my late 30s I had hit my number. I finally had financial freedom but my nervous system hadn't accepted it. So I kept going. Maybe it was the scarcity mentality from my childhood. Who knows? But I remember feeling like I was an unfinished work of art that would expire before it was finished. I was still a hamster, just on a different wheel. The wheel gets shinier and it spins faster and we just keep going on. We get there and then we move the goalpost. The problem here isn't ambition. It's this idea that fulfillment is one more achievement away. That one last hit, that one last score, and then I'll ride into the sunset. But there's nothing in that future that will finally fix it all. Psychologist Kristen Nef calls it lack of self-compassion. When our self-worth depends on being superior, it becomes fragile and we stay stuck on this treadmill of endless comparison. That sounds familiar to me. Of course, you should never stop striving to become better. That's not the solution. But you also need to start enjoying the idea of being who you are in parallel to find that balance between being and becoming. Here are three questions to ask yourself perhaps every week. What did I learn? It's about growth. What did I improve? It's about others. And the most important question, what did I smile about today? And now for the last advice I received. When your plans fall apart, curiosity is the only compass that still works. My music teacher, a great maestro, changed how I thought about curiosity versus certainty. I remember sitting down for a lesson one of those days and he was relaxing on his couch and I was sitting in front of him and I was all like warmed up, ready to nail whatever comes my way. But he stopped me cold and he asked me, "What is your instrument telling you today?" It wasn't some composition he was talking about, not some technique. He was teaching me how to listen, how to be curious about my own instrument, about my own ideas, my own instinct, to give up on certainty in favor of curiosity. That was a phenomenal advice because most of us think success requires a master plan, right? A 5-year strategy with mapped out milestones and oh, you got to write all the details down and you got to visualize it every day. All of that is important. I'm not downplaying any of it. But the best opportunities don't announce themselves. They surprise us. They show up as some weird side project or a random conversation or an accidental interaction from the left field that we never expected. Life isn't a chessboard. There are no guaranteed moves. It's closer to surfing. You don't control the waves. You may have a perfect plan to surf, but when the wind starts shifting and the waves disappear, the plan isn't going to matter. All you can do is stay curious, stay open, stay tuned in and wait for the next wave. Curiosity is like a whisper. Our mind has to be quiet enough to hear its voice. So each week ask yourself, what am I curious about? Then follow up on that thread. Read one article outside of your field or ask that one question you haven't asked before or even try one project that doesn't have a clear ROI. Let randomness surprise you. Remember, the best opportunities don't knock. They vanish as soon as they appear. But curiosity knows where to find them. If you found this video helpful, hey, please subscribe. Also watch the video about seven things that you can stop doing in order to find financial freedom and fulfillment. I appreciate all your time, all the comments, all the love. Thank you and I love you.

----
You’re Not Behind (Yet): How to Learn AI in 17 Minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWFFaKxsz_s
Most people using AI are doing it wrong, which is why it's surprisingly easy to get ahead of 99% of them. I have spent over 20 years in tech and AI as a CEO, board member, investor, building billiondoll companies. And here's what I'm seeing. The gap between people who understand AI and those who don't is getting wider faster. In this video, I'll give you a clear sevenstep road map to master AI like the top 1%. And the best part is you can actually do it in just 30 days, even if you're a total beginner. Let's dive in. Week one starts with learning what I call machine English. Most people talk to AI like it's a person. And that's a huge mistake. Why? Because the generative AI systems like Chad GPT don't actually understand our language. They predict it. And that's where most people get stuck. If I said Humpty Dumpty sat on a Your brain's going to fire wall, you knew what was coming. Your brain predicted it. You could have said Humpty Dumpty sat on a roof. Now it's accurate, but you knew wall was more likely based on what you've seen before. Think about Google search. It does autocomplete the same way. Why? Because it has seen so many search queries before. It has learned from it and now is giving you the most likely option. AI models like Chat GPT or Gemini work in a similar fashion, but they're different than search engines because they don't store any pre-baked answers. They generate the answer on the fly. How do they generate it? Like at a very high level, AI breaks your text into smaller parts called tokens. Each token is a word or sometimes a part of a word. Humpty is probably one token. Dumpty could be another token. Sat another token. Wall another token. Then AI converts each token into a list of numbers, also known as multi-dimensional vectors. Those numbers are placed inside a massive mathematical space called an embedding space. And in that massive space, similar ideas tend to live closer together. The system has learned from previous experiences. So, it knows that the word Humpty, egg, wall, and fall will be closer, but they're going to be far from words like motorcycle or chocolate. Now, when it's time to generate the answer, AI looks at the context and predicts the most likely next token. So, when it sees Humpty Dumpty had a great, it weighs all the options. Humpty Dumpty had a great party. Humpty Dumpty had a great day. Humpty Dumpty had a great chocolate. and it sees that the word fall is the most likely outcome. So the line is generated and finished not from memory, not from stored facts, but from probability and proximity. That's why AI can feel so smart, but also so alien. Now, I'm skipping a lot of details here, but the important takeaway here is that when your prompt is vague, this guessing machine called Chat GPT or Gemini will produce guesses that are also vague. And if your prompt is sharp and targeted, AI will come back to you with sharp and targeted guesses. That's what I call machine English. It helps AI to compute your intent, not just try to comprehend it. So, what does a sharper prompt look like? I call it aim. A for actor. Tell the model who it's acting as. I is for input. Give it the context and data it needs. And M for mission. What do you want it to do? Instead of typing, let's say, fix my resume, try typing, hey, at GPT, you are the world's most sought after ré editor and business writer. You've reviewed thousands of résumés that led to interviews at top tech companies. You've told the AI what its persona is, what it's acting as. A second line, I'm attaching my resume and the job description for a senior product manager role at a fintech company. That's your input. Third, mission. Review it and give me a bullet list of 10 specific ideas on how to improve clarity, measurable impact, align with the role. Your mission is to help me build the best resume that gets me hired. That's how you take aim. It turns a prompt into a structure. The model can understand, compute, and reason with. You can use this three-part structure in almost all prompts. And from now on, you will start seeing the results to be at least five or 10 times better than before. Only when you learn its language does AI finally start working for you. Now that you understand how to speak to AI, we're going to pick your instrument. Here's the thing. Most people start their AI journey the wrong way. They Google top 50 AI tools. They pick 10 and they jump from one to the other. They skim through all of them. That's a recipe for failure because there's so much out there. My recommendation, pick one, go deep. Think of learning AI the same way you would learn an instrument. You know, there is a study in Frontier Psychology that found that drummers pick up guitar faster than complete beginners. Drumming is not even about melody and it requires very different physical skills. But I personally had the same experience. I spent tens of thousands of hours as a drummer. And when I picked up guitar, it wasn't easy, but it wasn't uncomfortable because I already knew how to practice and my brain was trained to see structures and patterns. The deeper you dig into one foundational model, the faster you will find the rhythm of all the others. So, which one do you pick? If you want the most mature one, pick Chat GPT. If you're deep into Google stack and Google's ecosystem, try Gemini. If you want more business and projectbased AI, go with Claude. But really, it doesn't matter what you pick. In the first week, spend time with one of them and learn its personality, its cadence, its limits, its strengths. The goal is to start feeling the rhythm. Once you get comfortable, try using the aim framework that we talked about. By the end of week one, you should be able to write a structured prompt without thinking. All right, so we've started using AI. Now, let's talk about what actually makes your outputs smart, and that's context. The world's smartest AI will sound clueless unless you feed it context. Every answer AI gives depends on how it understands the question. If you don't give it context, it has no grounding. Remember that inside these AI models, there is nothing but a crazy mathematical space filled with billions of numbers. Context is the map that helps you navigate that space to tell AI where to look and what matters. And the best way to build that map is with an acronym I call map. M is for memory. the conversation history or the notes that carry over from previous chat sessions that you've had with the AI. Now, you can repaste the thread or ask the model to summarize before starting again. That's how you'll start building continuity in your conversations. A is for assets. The files, data, the resources that you attach or copy paste in your prompt. These assets help you ground the model in reality. Second A is for actions. Now these are the tools that the model can call to do work. The action could be search the web or scan your drive or write this code or create a notion doc and P is the prompt and the prompt is the instruction itself. So the better you get with memory assets and external actions, the better context you'll give AI in the prompt. And the richer the context, the better the AI reasoning and response. Once you start using these frameworks like AIM and MAP, you have joined the top 10% of AI users. But if you want to hit that absolute expert level, there is one more thing that you really need. Debug your thinking, which is step four. When you're not getting the right answer, the problem is not the AI, it's your thinking. I remember the first time I ever prompted an AI. It was one of those earliest models from OpenAI and I spent an entire day trying to make sense of it and by the end of it I was super frustrated because it was random. It was unpredictable. But back then no one understood. The phrase prompt engineering hadn't even existed yet because prompting isn't typing. It's iterating. When the output is weak, I assume the fault is mine because it is. Did I get it the right persona? Did I provide the right context? Did I give it the right goal? And sometimes I even ask the model itself, what did you do? And why did you choose that answer? It will explain its logic. He'll explain his chain. And that's when the magic starts. You're not just using AI, you're learning how it thinks. There are three cheat codes I use for that. The first is the chain of thought pattern. When the answer seems off, I would say think step by step. Show your reasoning. Then give me the final concise answer. The second is the verifier pattern. I would say to the AI, ask me three questions that would clarify my intent to you. Ask them one at a time and then combine what you've learned and try again. And the third is the refinement pattern where you're refining your input itself. Before answering, propose two sharper versions of my question. Ask which one I prefer. So AI will tell me how to ask the right way. And then we continue. And you have to keep iterating with these patterns because these loops can teach the model how to understand you and teach you how to understand the model. test, tweak, tune up, push until you can tell why something is working and why something is off. That's when it clicks. You're not talking at AI anymore. You're having an ongoing conversation. You and AI are learning together from each other. But here's the thing, it's not enough to just debug your mind. If your post sounds like every other LinkedIn post I see that's pasted from chat GPT, you still have a problem. And that's why step five is to steer to experts. When you ask Chat GPT a question, you're not searching a database of answers. You're sampling from millions of probable ideas that AI has learned over time and is storing as billions of numbers. is some are brilliant, some are average, some are completely made up, and some are flat out wrong. If you prompt vaguely, like explain how to make a team more innovative, the model will give you a superficial generic blah answer full of buzzwords. And you'll read it and think, "Yeah, I already knew that." So, how do you fix that? You direct the model away from the middle and toward the sharper edges of its brain. So instead of that vague prompt, you can say this. Explain how to make a team more innovative using ideas from Pixar's brain trust, Satya dea strategy, and Harvard's research. Now you pull the model from mediocrity into mastery by navigating it toward experts, frameworks, depth. What if you want to learn about black holes and you don't know who the experts are? No problem. Ask AI first. List the top experts, researchers, and research papers and current thinking on black holes. Then feed the same thing back to the model and prompt using these experts and sources synthesize the original framework that fills the current gap on the science of black holes or whatever it is that you're after. That's the way you make sure AI is not an echo chamber anymore. But remember, you're going to need to verify what you get. That's our step six. Sometimes AI will tell you things like 68% of Americans are getting divorced. I mean, you know, it's not true. But the scary part is AI will sound just as confident when it's wrong as when it's right. So, you can tell AI 100 times, stop making stuff up. But all models are essentially generative by design. Making things up is why they exist. So, what do you do about that? You simply verify. Don't just consume. Critique. There are five ways to separate intelligence from illusion. Assumptions, sources, counter evidence, auditing, and cross model verification. Let's take one at a time. Assumptions, ask. List every assumption you made and rank them each by confidence. Second is sources. Ask. Site two independent sources for each major claim that you just made. Include title, URL, and a oneline quote. Now you can check it yourself. That's the scaffolding behind the answer. Counter evidence. Push it. Find one credible source that disagrees with your answer. Explain the dependencies. That's where real reasoning lives. Auditing is the fourth one. Ask. Recomputee every figure. Show your math or code. You'll be shocked how often the numbers change once you make it slow down and start auditing. And finally, crossmodel verification. This one's my favorite. I run the same prompt in ChatgPT and Gemini and Claude. I take the output from one model and ask another to critique it. Or I feed the claims of one model into the other and say, "Verify this." That's how you separate noise from knowledge. By the end of your third week, you'll start feeling more in control of your output. But here's the problem. The best AI output aren't the ones that sound the most original, they're the ones that sound like you. That's why step seven is about developing tastes. Most people use AI like a vending machine. They push a button, grab the same junk food output everyone else gets, and call it a day. If you did that, most people will know you just copy pasted it. But you are past that now, right? It's your fourth week. It's time to step into the ring. Treat AI like your sparring partner. Argue with it. Push back. Sharpen your thinking. Sharpen its thinking. That's where the ocean framework comes in. Is how you turn generic answers into tasteful insights. Something that sounds like you. Oh, original. Look at the response. Is there a nonobvious idea in it? If not, push it. Ask, give me three angles. no one else has thought about. Label one as risky and recommend the one that you like the most. C concrete. Are there names, examples, and numbers that make sense? If not, ask. Back every claim with one real example. E is evident. Is the reasoning visible? Is there enough evidence? If not, ask. Show your logic in three bullets. Provide evidence before you provide final answer. A assertive. Does it take a stance? you could agree or disagree with. If not, push it again. Don't tell me what I want to hear. Pick a side. State your thesis, defend it, and then address the best counterpoint. Narrative. What's the story? Does it flow? Is it tight? Guide it. Write it like a story. Hook, problem, insight, proof, actions, whatever you want in that story. So, that's the ocean framework to add taste to your output. Now, as you apply this over 30 days, you will start noticing something deeper. Every prompt you write, every revision you push, every judgment you make, you're not just training the model, you are training you. AI is coming whether we like it or not. To some, it might be triggering lots of deep fears, but I remain a perpetual optimist. I think AI is not here to replace human work. It's here to restore human worth. If you like this video, don't forget to subscribe and check out my most recent video here. Thank you and I love

----
How to introduce yourself—and get hired | Rebecca Okamoto | TEDxNorthwesternU
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_N3PGvnVKg
That's one small step for man. [Applause] Tell me about yourself. Four simple words that can make anyone ramble or freeze. Even people at the top of their game can go blank when they hear those dreaded words. So, what does that mean? Does your introduction really make that big of a difference? I never thought it did. I thought my introduction wasn't nearly as important as my qualifications. For example, right after I started my business, I had the perfect opportunity to shine. I was interviewing as an instructor for a supply chain institute, and I knew I was the ideal candidate. I had over 20 years of expertise leading supply chains for one of the world's largest consumer products companies. As I prepped for my interview, I didn't want there to be any doubts about my qualifications. I created an elevator pitch and included a complete list of my accomplishments. When I heard tell me about yourself, I was ready and I proudly explained everything that I could do. When I finished, the interviewer said, "Uh, instead of talking about yourself, it would have been more effective if you had explained what you can do for me." My interview lasted five minutes. She rejected me on the spot based off of one answer. That was my wakeup call. I realized it doesn't matter how smart you are. It doesn't matter how perfect a fit you are if you can't capture someone's attention. After that, I became laser focused on cracking the code on introducing myself. I studied the science of first impressions. I researched viral headlines and what made them so irresistible. And then I discovered the secret of introducing myself perfectly in 20 words or less. Fast forward about 6 months. I'm having coffee with the executive director of a business development program. She asks me, "What do you do?" I answer her in one sentence. I'm a communications consultant and I help people with something to say but struggle to say it. She leans in and says three magic words. Tell me more. 15 minutes later, she hires me to give workshops for new entrepreneurs. But here's the thing. I was the same person who blew that interview just 6 months before. But this time, I got the job even though I had way fewer qualifications. And the only thing different between success and failure, between that door of opportunity opening or slamming shut in my face, was my introduction. From that point on, I started to see my introduction in a whole new light. It wasn't just a way of grabbing someone's attention. I thought about all those times when I would hear no and my inner critic would tell me that people didn't see me or hear me because I wasn't good enough or smart enough. But that was wrong. It wasn't me. It was my introduction. All right. Are you ready to introduce yourself in 20 words or less? I'm going to start with two secrets of getting people to say, "Tell me more." Secret number one, think soundbite, not data dump. That's because with today's multitasking, attention deficit audiences, it's been said you have a better chance of engaging with a goldfish than the person that you're talking to. A 20word introduction is designed to grab someone's attention and get them to say, "Tell me more." Secret number two, do you remember what that interviewer told me? Don't talk about yourself. Instead, explain what you can do for them. I called the difference between an about me versus an about you introduction. An about me introduction sounds like this. I'm an award-winning best-selling author. Compare that to I help new authors get published faster. Can you hear the difference? One describes me, the other describes what I can do for you. Now that you know the secrets, here are five ways to introduce yourself perfectly in 20 words or less. I'm going to start with a straightforward about you introduction. The formula is I help my target audience achieve a benefit they desire. For example, I help worry job hunters confidently explain why they're the ideal candidate to hire. Now, here's a tip about your benefit. A benefit answers your listener's question. How will my life be different? For the second framework, let's go beyond offering a benefit. Let's promise a breakthrough. The formula is the same as the benefit one, but you're going to add the word without. I help my target audience achieve a benefit they desire without negative consequence. I help established brands in competitive markets rapidly reach new audiences without increasing marketing spend. The word without is so powerful because that's how you explain what makes you unique. For the last three frameworks, here's what to say if you don't want to focus on your career. For example, you're missiondriven or you're on a career pivot. Maybe you're a student and you don't have a lot of work experience. In this case, you can use your passion, your mission, or your strength. I'll start with your passion. I'm passionate about something I value to achieve something my target audience values. I'm passionate about helping people in need and creating opportunities that change lives. Next, instead of your passion, you can use your strength. I'm known for my strength to achieve something my target audience values. I'm known for my critical thinking and turning information into actionable insights. Last, you can use your mission. I'm on a mission, too, to achieve something my target audience values. I'm on a mission to bridge the healthc care divide and make a lasting difference for vulnerable communities. And that's how you use your passion, your mission, or your strength. Now that you've seen the five introductions, your next step, try them out. Don't be surprised if you find yourself using more than one. That's because different audiences value different things. So, what works for one may not work for another, but that's okay. You'll see there are multiple ways of getting people to say, "Tell me more. I'll close with this thought. Have doors been closed in your face? Do you struggle to be seen and heard? Does your inner critic tell you you're not good enough or smart enough or that you're an impostor and something is way above your pay grade? Before you buy into your inner critic's narrative, let me challenge you. What if? What if that voice inside your head is wrong? What if you are good enough and smart enough? What if the best way to describe you is impressive, not impostor? And what if the only thing between you and being seen, heard, and recognized is your introduction in 20 words. [Applause] [Music]

----
