How To Speak Like A Billion-Dollar CEO
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cvIdPMmuptU

I have sat in boardrooms where billion-dollar decisions are made. And I've watched the leaders gain instant respect in two sentences and lose all credibility in one. These are the five communication skills the 1% elite use to sound like the most powerful person in the room. And number five, that's the one that changes everything. Skill number one is a tough one. Most people think explaining every detail makes them sound smarter. I was in a board meeting where the CFO loaded up a 60s slide deck to talk about company's financial plans next year and I asked him one question. What do you think the margins will be next year because of the new product launch? And he went into all kinds of details, scenarios and product fit and product mix and market signals and internal rate of returns and caveats. And after it was done, I turned to the CEO and I asked her the same question and she thought for a second and the answer just three lines. Margins will be a third lower. We're investing in tech and marketing. One risk is the load on our services team, but we'll have a backup. Done. See the difference? Employees explain leaders make the call. 70% of managers say that their meetings are unproductive or inefficient. And I'm sure you've been to those 2-hour meetings. Why? Because nobody makes the call. We think showing our work makes us look smarter. It doesn't. It makes us look lost. If you were to communicate like a CEO, you have to change that mindset. The point here isn't that you shouldn't focus on numbers. Details and execution matters in every role. That's not what I'm saying. But when it comes to communicating those results, the headline comes first. Here's one framework that you can use. I call it the 3A pyramid principle. Answer first, state your conclusion upfront, arguments second, back it up with two or three reasons. Now, categorize, summarize, keep it very short, keep it very tight, and add-ons last. Provide all the relevant details and data, but only when you're asked. If you're tempted to overexlain, think of your answer as a tweet. Keep it very short. 280 characters max. After the 3 A's, stop and just let silence do the work. If the room wants more, they will ask. Number two, most people do this all the time and it quietly kills their executive presence. The worst part, they don't even realize it. I was coaching a VPO product who was passed over by the board for a chief product officer position. He was very smart and strategic and he was confused and so he asked me and I asked the board about how they had thought about him. The feedback I got from them was that the VP had lacked conviction in his vision. I knew the VP and I knew that he definitely had conviction. He believed in the road map that he was building. I told him to deliver a presentation, the same roadmap presentation that he had delivered to the board. And then he started delivering and there it was in plain sight. He spoke in hedges. I think we should maybe try this. We might possibly consider that. His competence was drowning under a flood of filler words. Research shows that hesitant language makes an audience view you as less credible. Imagine if Martin Luther King had said, "Well, to be honest, I kind of have this dream." It would have never worked. His clarity gave his words the power he needed. We unfortunately live in a world where promotions go to the person who sounds like a leader, not necessarily the one who's right for the role. Without clarity and authority, your teams will hesitate about you. investors will worry about you and customers will they'll just ignore you. So here's how you grow your authority. First, invest in it. Invest time to develop it. How? Prep like a pro. Every golfer, every rockstar, every politician rehearses before stepping on stage. Why shouldn't you? Second, record yourself. Count every I think um maybe to be honest. Analyze why and when that happens. Third, do a filler detox. Pick one hedge and eliminate it just for a week and then move on to the next one. And here's an extra step. Swap hedges for silence. Not sure what you're going to say? That's okay. The take a beat? Pause. Silence actually builds authority. Even when you are answering a question, think for three or 4 seconds, construct the answer, and then speak. And more importantly, it'll make you become more thoughtful. Number three, the fastest way to lose a room isn't saying the wrong thing. It's looking like you don't even believe yourself. A long time ago, I was giving a presentation and I was sitting on a chair and there were a lot of senior execs around me and I thought I was doing well. I thought I was pretty much on point. The presentation ended and afterwards I asked my boss for feedback. I said, "How how do you think I did?" And he said, "You know, your ideas were very strong, but you looked nervous as hell." And I was surprised. And I said, "What do you mean?" And he said, "Well, you were nodding like a bobblehead, bouncing your leg, fidgeting with a pencil, just looking at the presentation screen versus looking at the audience." Ouch. He was right. Because no matter how clear and solid your delivery is, research shows that more than half of people's perception about you comes from your body language. Princeton researchers found something even more astonishing that people decide how competent you look in just 100 milliseconds. And you know those split-second judgments have literally predicted election results. In 1960, Kennedy looked calm and composed on TV. And Nixon looked sweaty and shifty. Radio listeners thought Nixon won, but TV viewers gave it to Kennedy. In 1992, the same thing happened. George HW Bush glanced at his watch during a debate. One tiny gesture that made the whole country feel he was disconnected, that he'd rather be somewhere else. And in 2000 election, Al Gore's size and eye rolls made him look arrogant, distant, while George W. Bush was relaxed. His posture was very cool and it made him look like the guy people wanted to have beer with. So body language and leadership go hand in hand because body language can also win hearts and minds. That's why CEOs weaponize their posture, their pace, their pauses. Here's how you can emulate this in your own way. First, record yourself in your next meeting or presentation or just do it in front of a camera. How do you sound? How do you look? You know, when I did it, I was so shocked and surprised to see all the nervous habits that I didn't even realize I had. Second, slow your pace down just by 15 to 20%. Pause after big points. Sit, walk, move with intentionality. Challenge yourself to go through a casual conversation without fidgeting and be totally present. And third, claim your space. Sit or stand comfortably. Use your physical presence to amplify what you're saying. Number four, facts pass through the brain. Stories go straight to the heart. I was talking to a senior executive who was the EVP at Huelet Peckard for 30 years. He told me this story. He was delivering a speech at a convention to thousands of people. Lots of data, lots of facts, lots of metrics, and he was reading the teleprompter. Carly Fiorina, who was the CEO of HP at that point, was standing in the wings. Their eyes met for a second and the CEO smiled and she shook her head and pointed to her heart. And the EVP immediately understood. What she was saying was, "Don't just rely on facts or the prompter. Tell a story that touches people's hearts. Speak from your heart." Think about Steve Jobs. He could have walked on stage and said, "We build a hardware device for audio with 5 gigs of RAM for your MP3 content." He didn't. Instead, he said, "Thousand songs in your pocket." 20 years later, that's still what people remember. And this is not just about showmanship. Back in the 1960s, Stanford researchers ran a study. One group of students had to memorize random word lists. Another group got the same words but wrapped in a story. The list group recalled only 13% of the words. The story group recalled 93%. Same words, different delivery. So if you rely only on facts, you risk becoming forgettable. So take these three steps to go from forgettable manager to unforgettable leader. First build your three core stories. One about a struggle and one about a turning point. These are your repeatable story lines. Second, translate for the room. Boards want to focus on strategy. Team wants execution. Customers want value. Same story, three versions. Third, always anchor data in narrative. Don't just drop numbers. Make them more relatable. Don't just say Niagara Falls unleashes 634,000 gallons of water every second. Make it relatable. That would be like emptying 1 billion bathtubs over the edge every single minute. Well, now you have brought it home. Stories can engage, inspire, even ignite entire movements. But here's an important question. Are they really about you or about others? because only one of them will create real change. Number five, and this is the one everything else depends on. You can master clarity, confidence, presence, and storytelling, but your leadership will collapse if you can't turn every win into a we and every loss into a me. I learned a tough lesson years ago in one of the most tender and wonderful moments of my career. I was leaving the company where I had served as an SVP and I was going to another company where they had recruited me to my first seale role. It was my last day and I sat down with one of my VPs. I asked him, "What should I do differently in my next role?" And he paused for a second because no one had asked him that question. And then suddenly tears started rolling down his face and his voice cracked a little and he said, "You're going to be a great leader. I just wish you had invested more time in me." That just broke me because he was right. I realized that I had been showing off more than showing up. I gave him a hug and said, "I'll never forget what you've said." So, Jason, if you ever see this, I still remember what you said, and I hope I have made you proud. That's the hardest adjustment in leadership. It's not about you. The best CEOs turn the spotlight away. Amateurs say, "I did this." Leaders say, "We're doing this." And when it fails, that's on me. A Gallup study found that when people receive high quality recognition, they are four times as likely to be engaged and more than 50% less likely to leave. President Truman put it best. It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit. That is the unwritten contract of leadership. When you absorb blame, you build trust. And trust is the one thing that matters the most at the top. When your team trusts you, they will move faster and rally when things get hard. And when they don't, any crisis can take you down in a day. And that's exactly what happened to the CEO of Lehman Brothers. When his company collapsed in 2008, he blamed hedge funds and regulators and the markets, anyone but himself. He became the face of arrogance and failure. And his reputation never recovered. From today, flip the switch. Stop trying to be the most interesting person in the room. Be the most interested person in others. This week, flip another switch, the credit blame switch. In your next meeting, when something goes right, name names. Michelle, you crushed it. At least once a week, call out someone on your team publicly for their contributions. Keep it specific, authentic, and tied to impact. And this month, practice the ACE framework to give negative feedback effectively to others. Acknowledge the effort. Clarify the issue with precision. Expand the path forward with support that will help you focus on others. Speaking like a CEO is not just about precise words or polished presence. It's about making everyone else believe they are succeeding. That builds trust. and trust communicates way more than any communication technique. If you like this video, don't forget to subscribe and check out my recent video on how to progress faster than anyone else. Thank you and I love you.

----
Top 4 McKinsey Consulting Frameworks Explained (mini-class)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qe00Ldpq8wA&t=383s
- I'm going to teach you how to use four McKinsey communication frameworks so you can sound competent and composed in the workplace. This is a four-part series that I have stitched together to make it easy for you to find all of those frameworks in one place. So let's do it. I am going to show you how to communicate like a McKinsey consultant by showing you one of their well-known communication frameworks, their SCR framework. I had the pleasure of doing workshops for McKinsey at their regional headquarters and offsite retreats for many years and taught their relatively new hires how to communicate clearly and concisely so they could translate their amazing expertise in a way that was helpful for their clients. The SCR framework will help you sound more prepared, polished, and competent. The three talking points tell a tight, coherent story. If the information is tailored to your listeners like this, then your message will be more persuasive and have a logical force, and you can use the SCR talking points to shape a message as brief as just three sentences. It's one sentence for each point, or you could use it to shape an overall message of one to two minutes, like for a pitch. You could even use these three points as the introduction for a longer presentation that unpacks the message in more detail, and we'll talk more about that later in this four part series. For this video, we'll keep it simple and stick to just one or two sentences for each point to teach you the key parts of the framework. It's up to you to adapt the SCR framework to fit your message, so imagine talking to an external client or somebody internal to your organization and you'd like to explain a situation to them and convince them to follow your recommended course of action. Here are the three points to use. The first point is S, you explain the situation. You start by explaining the context and background information that the listener needs to understand. The rest of the story you're about to tell, there's no news here. Nothing surprising. This information is simply setting the stage and orients your listeners to the topic. In many cases, you may be reminding listeners of what they already know. Here are three quick examples. Example one, working from home. Example, as you know, a few years ago, our company made a big move to encourage people to work from home. We initially thought we could strike the right balance. Example two, which is a labor shortage. We're all familiar with the data that shows the education sector has had trouble hiring for years. Example three is competition. It's common knowledge that dine-in restaurants like ours are struggling to make a profit because of increased competition. As you can see, this type of information will already be familiar to any of your listeners. You just orienting them to the topic by giving them context. Second point is see the complication Here you'll talk about a new or emerging issue that concerns you. This talking point is essentially about the problem. What's the complication? You're talking about the obstacle, the risk, or the issue that the team is currently facing. What is the new or pressing issue standing in the way of the team moving forward toward its goals? Let's continue with our examples. Our most recent data shows that working from home is not as effective as we intended. We're losing most of our opportunities to collaborate organically and innovate like we used to, and that has always been part of our competitive edge for the past two years. We can confirm it's taking two to three times as long to hire for vacant positions because many college graduates are going into healthcare, marketing and high tech to earn more money instead of education. Many customers are now using services like Uber Eats and DoorDash or are choosing to eat at fast casual dining restaurants instead of dining. In. Each of those examples states what the key complication is for the problem. Third, the R stands for resolution. This is where you offer your proposed plan or recommended solution to the complication you just mentioned. This is your action step, and that's why this SCR framework has a persuasive flow. It's built on the same problem solution structure that forms almost all persuasive messages. McKinsey uses the terms complication resolution, but they're essentially talking about the problem and solution. The point is your listeners will be much more likely to accept your proposed solution after they've heard the problem or the complication. That's a very compelling way to structure a message as opposed to simply jumping to a solution without providing a motivating rationale. First, let's get back to the examples. That's why I recommend we designate specific days of the week, Wednesdays and Thursdays for all of our in-person collaborative meetings that are meant to launch or advance new projects, we know we can't compete on salary, so my proposal is to focus on emphasizing better health benefits, vacation schedules, and retirement plan in our recruiting process. Additionally, I suggest we apply for an education grant to provide generous signing bonuses to new hires to turn the ship around. I propose we implement a three-part solution to one, enhance the dine-in experience. Two, create a customer loyalty program, and three, hold more special events to attract new customers. You'll notice when we put the SER message all together, this can be very brief. Each example here would only last about 30 seconds. If you put it all together, it can even be as short as three total sentences if you really sharpen your wording, and I always recommend, don't obsess about every single word. Don't try to make it perfect. Just write out some notes, some talking points, and then speak conversationally for a written message. You could use these talking points to structure an important email or a longer written proposal. If you were doing a presentation, you could use the SCR points to structure your introduction and then each of your body points would dive deeper into the specific parts of your solution. I'll show you exactly how to do that later. In this four-part series, I am going to show you how to use McKinsey and company's pyramid principle to structure a message in a thorough and persuasive way, and as a bonus near the end, I'm going to tell you about a related concept, McKinsey's MECE principle. That is how to make sure your talking points are mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. Like all McKinsey frameworks, the Pyramid principle is just as much of an analytical tool to clarify your thinking as it is a schema to structure a message. It's like the old expression goes clear speaking shows clear thinking. Barbara Minto wrote a book based upon her experience at McKinsey called the Pyramid Principle, and there's a great article on the product mindset website that I'm drawing from as well, and I'll put links to the book in the article in the description below this video. McKinsey's pyramid has three levels, the top level, second level, and the third level. Your top level message answers the question, what's your overall point? What's the main message you want your listeners to take away? What is it you want your message to accomplish? This is more than simply expressing a general idea. Your level one message should lean towards some action that you want to see happen. Some people call this your key takeaway, your bottom line, your headline, your argument, or in some cases, the point of view that you are advocating for. If you had to summarize your entire message down to one concise sentence that was memorable and actionable, what would you say? Here are two top level examples for a presentation that you might give. We must update our logo and branding. We should increase our investments in reaching new customers. Notice that these are boiled down to one concise action-oriented sentence. You lead your message with your level one statement on the top of the pyramid. One of the reasons McKinsey promotes the pyramid approach is that some speakers and writers want to do the opposite. They want to tell the whole winding story and all the details, and then finally, land on the bottom line recommendation at the end of the message. If that's you, I recommend that you figure out what that key message is that you're tempted to put all the way at the end as your call to action, and instead reword a little bit and give it as your top level message first to figure out what you really want to say here at level one. Ask yourself questions like this. This is the only thing my listeners heard was this one sentence, my top level message. What would I say? What is the overall point I want to make? What's the big idea or action I want my listeners to get on board with? The second level of the pyramid consists of your sub points. These are the necessary supporting points to build out your overall level one argument. Many people call these sub points your buckets, and as your subpoints spread out, this visually starts to look a little more like a pyramid. You might give your three arguments or your three reasons to support a direction you believe is the right one. It's possible that your level two subpoints outline a process you want your listeners to follow, and you have your three part plan that lays out your ideas in practice. For example, my three reasons for wanting to update our logo and branding are, number one, the current logo is too complex and it doesn't look good on printed materials. Number two, customers find the meaning of our current logo and branding ambiguous, and three, we're losing old customers without gaining new ones and that example, I'd be giving three reasons or justifications to support my overall level one argument. This time, let's say I wanted to focus on explaining a process that I'm recommending to reach new customers. I might say that three ways to invest in reaching new customers are through online ads, email outreach, and personalized follow-up. You'll notice in that example, the way I phrased my subpoints was more concise than than the previous example. You always want to strive to be clear and concise in that level one message and for your level two sub points. Using three points is also fairly traditional in writing and speaking. Readers can digest that. Listeners can digest that, but ultimately the substance of your message will determine exactly how many main points you use, and if you've done this before, you know that trying to figure out what's in those buckets is no easy task. You have to ask yourself, what primary questions do my listeners need to be answered? What are the top reasons we should do this? What are the key parts of the plan? Who specifically should be involved in this project? Now onto level three? The third level is where you put all of the data that supports each of your subpoints. The supporting details will be completely unique in each of your messages. The idea is each one of your points should have support behind it, not just your opinion. You can't really just say, you really need to do this. That's usually not going to cut it. To be truly thorough and persuasive, you need to provide a logic and rationale, hard data, case studies, illustrative examples, customer feedback, and other concrete support in each bucket. I'd like to use the metaphor of a courtroom. Level one would be your big overall argument like my client is innocent. Level two of the pyramid is where you have the specific planks of your argument that you'll lay out in court. My client has an alibi, has no motive and wasn't physically capable of the crime. For each of those three planks, of course, you would need evidence, official documents, surveillance, video witnesses. In other words, a lawyer in court has to support every aspect of the case, and just like in court, the supporting details are where you'll spend the overwhelming majority of your time when you're communicating. It doesn't take long to communicate your level one point and state your level two sub points, but it takes time to spell out all the details in the supporting materials inside of those buckets as a bonus. Now, let's talk about how to make sure your subpoints are what McKinsey calls "MECE." That's MECE, which stands for mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive, and it's a mouthful. Mutually exclusive simply means that each of your subpoints in your message and the data that supports each of those subpoint do not overlap. Each bucket is mutually exclusive, so for example, in my message about finding new customers, my subpoints were that we should reach them through online ads, email outreach, and personalized follow-up. Let's say just for illustration purposes that one of my data points to support the use of more online advertisements was a story, a specific story about a customer who found our business through online ads. Once I sort that story into the online ad bucket, I should not recycle another part of that story or bring it back to support another point like the thing about email outreach as well. In the same way, don't cite the same statistic over and over again in each bucket that'll start to sound redundant and create unwanted blurriness between your sub points. Instead, strive to make your subpoint buckets and the evidence inside each bucket mutually exclusive. You want to use fresh distinct data in each of your subpoint. You can make sure that your buckets are mutually exclusive by doing what we call a vertical logic check. Make sure that each of your data points supports the point right above it and make sure that that subpoint supports your overall top level argument. If you find that some data, an example or illustration doesn't directly support the point above it, then that's probably a loose thread that doesn't belong on your outline and when you're doing a vertical logic check, if you find a piece of data that pops up in more than one bucket in level two, then keep it with that subpoint it fits best and delete it from the other bucket. Now, are there exceptions to this rule of being mutually exclusive? Of course, but strive as your default approach to make sure each subpoint and the data within them are distinct and the CE stands for collectively exhaustive. You would do what McKinsey calls a horizontal logic check to make sure that you have the right comprehensive spread of subpoints and that those subpoints flow in a natural logical order. First, second, third, and our example about creating a new logo and new branding, you have to make sure that the key questions that your listeners will be asking themselves are answered through your subpoints. Do your best to anticipate what your listeners want to know most. Now, I personally think the word quote exhaustive is a bit of an exaggeration. That sounds like a lot of pressure that could give the wrong impression that you're supposed to tell your listeners everything that you know, which oftentimes is the cause of being long-winded. Instead, just make sure you have the spread of subpoints and that there are no obvious questions or parts of the process that are left out. If you leave out something important, you should expect that your listeners are going to give you some pushback on that missing piece, and by doing your vertical logic check and horizontal logic check, that'll make sure your subpoints and the details within them are mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. Let's do a quick summary. The pyramid principle consists of three levels and make sure that the information in your pyramid is mey by doing a vertical and horizontal logic check. As mentioned, this framework is just as much of a thinking and analytical tool as it is a speaking tool because it forces you to take a disciplined approach to your preparation and really clarifies your thinking in the process. I'm going to show you how to use McKinsey and company's presentation framework that combines their SCR framework with their pyramid principle framework. This is the way they do it, and you can do it too, so that your next presentation sounds clear, comprehensive and concise. Let's quickly recap the two frameworks that we're going to put together. The first is the SCR framework. That's usually for a brief message that has just three points and point s. You explain the situation or the context of the background that your listeners need to understand. This is essentially what topic you're talking about. The C stands for complication. This is the problem that you are bringing to the conversation, the issue, the risk, the news that has come to the forefront that the group needs to tackle, and the R stands for resolution or the recommended course of action you want the team to follow. In the first video in this series about the SCR framework, I said that you can use this for a short standalone message That could be as brief as just three sentences, but the SCR framework also is almost the perfect basis for an introduction to an entire presentation with one small alteration. That is you put a question right after the complication. The complication introduces some kind of problem, and the question you ask right after it is a follow-up to that complication, and it'll always be a pretty simple question. Don't overthink it. Here are some samples. It'll usually be some version of, so what are we going to do about this? Or How can we fix this problem? What's the best way to solve this issue? There's nothing profound about this question. It's merely a way to engage your listeners and get them thinking and to make your presentation introduction slightly more interactive, and ultimately, you're going to answer that question yourself by giving them a summary statement about your resolution, your recommendation. That's the R point stands for resolution, and it also does double duty as your level one message in the pyramid, so that means yes, there's a bit of overlap between the two frameworks because they're smushed together to create a presentation framework. In school presentations, we call this R point, your thesis statement, so we'll expand our basic SCR framework into a presentation introduction by adding the Q, so it becomes CQR. The most concise version of this would be just four sentences. After your introduction, we move to the body and that's where the rest of the pyramid principle kicks in. If you watch the previous two videos, you probably already know exactly where I'm going with this. The subpoints in your pyramid become the subpoints of your presentation. Then at level three, you put all the data and your supporting materials into each of those appropriate buckets, and when we map it out, you can see this framework looks like a presentation already. Let's fill it in with some information to show you how this might look in your notes as you prepared a hypothetical presentation about using AI on your team. I'm not going to deliver this as if it's a speech. I'm just going to talk through it like I'm talking through the outline. As everybody here already knows, many industries and most companies in our sector have been using AI in lots of different ways. The issue for our company is that we have been slower to adopt AI as a daily tool, and the data from the past two quarters shows that it's starting to cost us our competitive edge. That raises the question, how are we going to get back on track and catch up? I'd like to recommend three ways we can use AI to streamline our process without sacrificing our innovative culture. First, we can start by adopting various existing AI tools that are already available for daily use. Second, I recommend we organize a small task force to develop specific AI tools we can use to speed up our unique workflow. And third, I'd like to hold an offsite retreat where we get hands-on and experiment with ways to use AI to augment our innovative culture rather than replacing people. After that roadmap of three points, we'd circle back and work our way through the details of each of those three buckets by giving rationale examples, supporting data, and any other details that strengthen each of those sub points. That's the way we'd use this template to map out the introduction and body points, but what about the conclusion? Well, our conclusion would depend upon the type of presentation we're making. To my knowledge, McKinsey does not recommend one specific conclusion or one specific framework to draft a conclusion, but just to be thorough at the most basic level, I recommend you say, in conclusion or in closing, to let listeners know you're about to finish. Next, you would reiterate that level one message for a very short presentation. Those two parts would be expressed as one sentence, and that could work as your entire conclusion. A third component that some speakers add is to recap their three main points, and there are certainly longer versions of conclusions, but those are the essential components you should have, and that how you combine the SCR framework with the pyramid principle structure to create an entire presentation. I would say no matter what message you want to communicate, using this approach to design and draft your message behind the scenes will automatically make you seem more prepared and competent than you would've been without it. And if it's good enough for some of the smartest people in industry, then it's good enough for you. I'm going to tell you about a big picture problem solving framework that McKinsey and company use as they work for their clients. You may never work for McKinsey or even external clients, but you can still learn from this framework for your own professional purposes. As a leader, you can recommend that your team use this problem solving process to tackle whatever big issues you face, and if you're ever on a team that's working through a problem solving process or steps, this is a big picture framework that'll help you understand how to participate effectively in each key part, and that way I'm not going to give you all of McKinsey's specific terminology. I'll explain it in a way that'll help you apply it to almost any professional setting. As part of my work as an outside consultant to McKinsey, I helped run practice problem solving sessions and watched many of their new consultants work through the first half of these steps in problem solving scenarios that we did live in the room. So I'm going to emphasize the first half of the process where the group actually works together, but I'll share all of the steps online. I've seen slightly different versions of this process, sometimes with six steps, sometimes with seven. My video is not to be definitive and authoritative. I'm grounding what I say in a podcast on McKinsey's website. That was from 2019. That's the basis for selecting this version of this steps, and I'll put a link to that episode in the description below so you can listen for yourself. The first step is defining the problem. Sometimes they call this problem definition. This is where the group asks questions like, what is the actual problem we're trying to solve? What are the constraints? Is this a long-term problem or a short-term problem, or both? Have we identified some root causes? Are we still talking about symptoms? I've seen a lot of groups in professional settings skip this key step. The trouble with skipping this step is that if you were to hypothetically ask each person in the room to write down what they believe the problem was at the beginning, it's very likely you would have completely different answers. But by the end of this conversation, using the power of the group, discussion, debate, analysis, give and take, the group should be able to agree on a basic definition of the problem and write out a concise statement of exactly what that problem is. For example, you might write out a problem like this, how can we improve the effectiveness of online learning? This is a completely hypothetical situation, just an illustration to walk you through McKinsey's problem solving. Either way, their problem should be worded in a way that calls for solutions to that problem. Step two is to dissect the problem into its component parts. Yes, we already identified and defined the essential problem, but now through group discussion and the use of diagrams and logic, trees and other tools, we're going to identify the most significant aspects of the problem. Many problems have multiple causes or symptoms. Some issues have moving parts. McKinsey might start in fact by using the pyramid principle that we talked about in an earlier video in this series to diagram the component parts of that problem. McKinsey uses the pyramid principle all the time, every day for everything. Engineers and other professions might prefer to use a fishbone diagram as an illustration of how this works, think about what your mechanic does when you bring your car in and tell 'em what is wrong with it. It's making a certain noise, it has a problem. You can't quite identify. The mechanic asks you questions at first and then starts looking at the car himself to see if the problem might be, for example, mechanical, electrical, or a computer problem. If it's a mechanical problem, you break that down further. Is it part of the main engine, the transmission, the fuel system, et cetera. The mechanic is using a mental logic tree to simplify the problem solving process and figure out what part of the engine you should be looking more closely at. And we do the same thing when we're trying to improve, for example, the effectiveness of online learning. You might realize that one of the major problems with online learning is that the platform or the technology is nowhere near as interactive as in-person learning. Or you may decide from your analysis of the problem that teachers who are trained for the classroom may not necessarily have the skills to create a dynamic online class. So as we dissect the particular problem, we end up with two or three related problems that we need to solve. Dissecting the problem like this helps simplify the task. Third is prioritization. This is where the group asks about how they can have the greatest impact on solving those problems. In the group problem solving sessions I observed at McKinsey, the consultants often ask, what are our levers? For example, if you're trying to improve the effectiveness of online learning, what are the levers you can pull or the variables that you can control? You might be able to influence how to hire better instructors. The learning management system you're using or training. Those might be good levers to prioritize, but you may realize there's not much you can do about other issues like budget or the short attention span of learners. This is a bit like seeing the issue through the Pareto Principle, the 80/20 mindset. What 20% should we focus on? That will create 80% of the results we want. And by identifying and prioritizing your most influential levers, you can focus your attention on actions that will have the largest impact. You don't want to waste your time too much talking about variables that are out of your control levers you cannot pull. Fourth, develop a work plan to look for data and answers that will help the team create an informed response to the problem in those later steps. There's no one size fits all to developing a work plan. The plan depends upon the first three steps. You might have a work plan where you have a few subgroups on the team, and that each of those teams are working their part of the problem. In terms of making online learning more effective, you may want to create a work plan that involves three parts. The first is a subgroup that researchers better interactive learning management systems. Another subgroup on the team would spend their time identifying some effective training that existing teachers can go through, and the third group might work with human resources to figure out better ways to hire teachers who specialize in online learning. The details of this plan don't need to be all spelled out in advance because it's quite likely that as everybody looks into their tasks a little further and starts collecting information, you're going to learn things along the way. That'll change your focus and lead to new questions. The key to a good work plan is that it has an initial focus, a clarity, and provides an actionable starting place to get to work. Now, when it comes to actually working through this plan, it could take a day or two, it could take weeks or even longer. So in the groups that I was working with and observing and coaching, this is typically where we'd stop our problem solving simulation. So on a day-to-day basis, I never got to see them tracking down data, but in your professional roles over the years, I'm sure that you have had to go out, ask questions, look for answers, collect data, and so forth. So once you've done that, let's move on to the next step. Step five in McKinsey's process is to do an analysis. This work happens behind the scenes, so it's typically not part of an ongoing group discussion. This is where each subgroup that's gone off to work their part of the plan takes that information they've gathered and analyzes it as best they can. You might have tons of quantitative data to comb through, or you might just have a few pieces of qualitative data. Either way, you want to make sure your analysis provides a healthy, well-rounded picture of the problem and likely action steps that could solve that problem. Step six is this extra step of synthesizing your analysis into clear, distilled understandable recommendations. This usually involves a well-developed presentation for the group and the client. If there's a client involved, you develop a detailed deck of slides that show all of the key findings. You might think the data speaks to itself, but it doesn't. It's up to you to provide your recommended solution that you believe that data supports. The strength of your recommendation should reflect the strength of your analysis. So yes, you want to have confidence in your recommendations, but if that's not what the data shows from your view, then giving recommendations with qualifications is completely appropriate. Maybe you're the decision maker, maybe your supervisor will decide. Maybe it's the entire team. You want to help whoever is making the decision. Make a fair and fully informed choice. Don't over promise or tell an unnecessarily one-sided story. Here's a summary of the six steps McKinsey uses in their problem solving process. Like I said, this is not a definitive list. It's one version that McKinsey has promoted through its public online podcast. It's a great starting place to understand how they approach these conversations, and you can use it to lead your own teams or at minimum, this will help you participate more effectively as a team member when your group is solving problems. And since this is the end part four, and this wraps up our series on these McKinsey frameworks, then I'd like to know if you made it to the end, let me know in the comment section and I'll be sure to give you a heart and say congratulations for making it all the way. And feel free to check out my website. There is a 100% free course about the top five communications 'cause all professionals should have in addition to other free resources. Until next time, thanks. God bless, and I will see you soon.

----
How To Speak Like The Richest 1%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOUYKvldrUw
When you speak, you are being judged. So if you want to be respected, you need to be in complete control of this and this and this. So today, I'm going to show you real proof from business leaders, experts, celebrities, and myself after running a portfolio of dozens of businesses to command respect and detention. Because if you can't take control of any room when you walk in, how can you expect to take control of your income, your opportunities, and your future? By the way, if you don't know me, I'm Cody Sanchez and I run a ninef figureure holding company called Contrarian Thinking. Let's get you in the CEO's seat. Focusing on words. You know what separates people who command respect from those who don't? It's not their title, their bank account, or even their expertise. It's actually how they speak. And I'm not talking about having a fancy vocabulary or perfect grammar. I'm talking about simple shifts and how you use your voice that will make people lean in, listen up, and take you seriously. Let me show you this clip from Jordan Peterson so we can steal his homework. Let's say you've got a kid and you want the kid to improve. You don't set them a bar that's so high that it's impossible for them to attain it. You take a look at the kid and you think, "Okay, this kid's got this range of skill. Here's a challenge we can throw at him or her that exceeds their current level of skill, but gives them a reasonable probability of success." Do you notice a few things about it? His pace he's speaking at. He doesn't rush his words like he's apologizing. He speaks deliberately, like every word matters. In short, he slows way down. When we're defending an unpopular opinion, like he often does, or if we're trying to prove our worth, most of us speed up like we're afraid someone's going to cut us off. But here's the thing, rushing makes you sound anxious, not authoritative. When you slow down, you give yourself space to think, which means fewer ums and more confidence. A perfect place to slow down is in meetings. I remember explicitly the first time I had a big chance to talk to the CEOs at a company called Vanguard back in the day. I was probably 21 years old. When they said, "Do you have any questions?" My hand shot up so fast. The problem is I really didn't think very much about what I was going to say yet. So, probably my series of questions came out like, "Well, you know, I've been thinking a lot about what we should do here at the company." And what I've realized is there there's a lot going on. And then I think what's happening is I probably said nothing really quickly for the first 30 seconds as opposed to my friend Jordan who is smooth as butter that guy. And he was so perfect. I remember him taking down notes while I was yapping on and he looked at me cuz he's the nicest guy in the world and was like those are great points. Then proceeded to make actual great points. He said you know I was listening to what you said. Two things stood out to me. The first being we were never taught how to be leaders in school. We were taught how to do not how to lead. So I really appreciate that part of this company. My second point would be I would love to do more meetings like this. Just hearing the way that you communicate as the CEO makes me communicate differently as a leader. Shut up, Jordan. So it's not just you. Lots of us are talking fast and not thinking too much. Be Jordan, not Cody 20 years ago. It also helps when you assume people want to know what you have to say. This is a mindset shift that changes everything. When you assume your audience is bored or disinterested, you become nervous. You start overexlaining. But when you assume they care about your message, you relax. You speak with purpose instead of apology. Jordan's a master of this. He treats every statement like it's valuable information his audience needs to hear, not like he's asking permission to speak. So if you want to make yourself articulate, which is a very good idea, then not only should you read, but you should write down what you think. If you're going to speak effectively, you have to know way more than you're talking about. Think about what he just said to you. He said, "If you want to be smarter, you should not only read, but write." That's literally that's what he said. But the way that he said it made you pause and think that maybe there was something more there. And notice how else Jordan talks. He changes his pitch strategically throughout his delivery. Most people speak in a boring monotone way, which makes even the most important ideas sound forgettable. Jordan does the opposite. He raises his pitch to emphasize key points and lowers it to drive home conclusions, creating this rhythm that keeps you locked in, even if he's only talking about writing and reading. When you speak in a flat, unchanging tone, you're essentially telling your audience that nothing you're saying matters. You're making it easy for them to tune out. Next, notice how clean Jordan's speech is. You rarely hear him say um uh like, or you know. That's because he's mastered the art of tossing his fillers. Here's what clear speech sounds like. See, I think the big biggest challenge I had in my generation was negotiating the years between 13 and 15, something like that. But my sense is now the biggest challenge to young people is negotiating the transition into adulthood, into adulthood identity. And I think that's partly why we have this terrible war in our culture about what constitutes identity. You see, that's what clean speech sounds like. And here's what fumbling over your words sounds like. Um, and uh, you know, people people say that, well, you want to be able to make the you want to be able to make a call with those specifications. All right. I'm a huge Elon fan, but I think he's leveled up since then. Maybe he's even watching this video because those little verbal crutches sneak in when you're buying time to think. Elon can get away with it. He's a genius. You can't. Every filler word is you essentially saying, "I'm not sure about this, but I'm talking about it anyway." Jordan replaces thinking time with strategic pauses, which actually makes him sound more thoughtful and in control, although it may take him longer than even it took Elon. So, in this clip, watch how Jordan does it. I don't think there's any difference between free speech and thought. And it has to be free because if it's not free, it's not thought. When you have a problem, you have to think. And if you have a problem, the thinking is going to be troublesome because you're going to think things that upset yourself and upset other people. Do you see how Jordan pauses instead of using filler words to plug the spaces in his speech? And if you listen to his voice itself, he's naturally tuned in to project authority. His pitch is deliberately lower. His volume is controlled. He varies his tone to emphasize key points. This is what we call tuning your voice, using it as an instrument to guide attention and create emphasis. Let me tell you how you can really mess up the tuning your voice and speaking too slow. Have you ever been in a meeting and you're like, "Dear God, for the love of all that's holy, please get the get it out. Get it out. Get whatever you're going to say out." I don't want you to slow down so much in meetings that you get in the way of people. Instead, I want you to think and I want you to prep and then I want you to speak. When you speak, I want you to think about an exclamation point at the end of almost every word. And not a loud exclamation point, but a definitive one. Sounds something like this. I love the points that you just made, Becky. I actually feel the exact same way. See the exclamation exclamation exclamation. One small difference. Using a number again, also showing that I have an area of expertise. She doesn't. One small difference. I believe our problem is sales, not LTV. See how punchy each line is? That little exclamation point will take you very far. These five shifts are respected multipliers. And here's why that matters for your bank account. every raise you negotiate, every client you close, they're all judging how you speak before they decide whether to give you more money, get your voice right, and you'll literally talk your way into more money. But you could master every single one of these techniques and still get completely ignored if you're making critical mistakes with your body. So, let's focus on that next. Listen to this quote from Kevin Olirri on body language. I'm sitting right in front of them when they walk out on the carpet. When they step out, the floor director says, "Okay, stand right there." I do this thing where I just look at and I watch their body language and I can tell after about 90 seconds, winner, loser. Pretty crazy, isn't it? Your body language says so much while your mouth says nothing at all. And on television, the body language in front of a shark, well, that's going to command attention or not. That is what we call claiming your territory. Most people, especially when nervous, make themselves smaller. They kind of cross their legs. They hug their arms to their body. They lean away. But watch what The Rock does as opposed to this other guy. How does it feel to sit across from him? It's very humbling. That's I was thinking that when we started the interview. Thank you. Uh really though. Uh so the first guy we're going to show you sits like this. Foot sort of weirdly to the side, slouching a little bit, casual, spread legs, but still kind of looks dimminative. Right now let's look at the rock. feet firmly planted on the ground, hands in front of him, chest out, stands up straight. He's claiming his space because in his mind, he does own the building. Now, it's fascinating in this next clip I want to show you guys. I want you to see a move that will happen without you saying a thing if you're not really thoughtful about what's on your face. Managed with the idea of being very private in a very public job. Jamie, I'll go with you first. I think it's incredibly easy. I don't I think you can court all that nonsense. You guys could probably guess that he didn't love that question regardless by the look on his face. It was so good. It's become an internet meme. You don't have to really say anything in order to be heard. There are so many things you can do that become power moves. Place your fingers together in front of your chest like Kevin did. That's called steepling. And it's one of the most powerful confidence signals you can send. Now, if you raise your eyebrows, look to the left or right, that's saying, "I'm not actually listening to you." Disrespect. Steepling works because it keeps your hands visible. So, it signals honesty. It's the body language equivalent of saying, "I'm confident enough to be still and to keep my hands right here where you can see them." But I want you to notice how people in power moves gesture when you're making important points. This is telling you, "Pay attention to me." This is saying it's very tiny opportunity. This is saying huge, but I don't have to say anything. Vanessa Van Edwards, my friend, likes to call this the truth plane. When you're nervous, your hands gravitate towards your chest or neck. When you're confident, they settle lower. And if you pay attention to eye contact, it's not just direct. The rock was calculated. He holds it slightly longer than most people are comfortable with. This is a subtle power dynamic. He's not staring aggressively. He's demonstrated he's completely present and unintimidated. Unconfident people break eye contact. They look too quickly, especially when delivering important information. But sustained eye contact, three to four seconds before glancing away, that creates connection that helps you bond. These aren't just posture tips. They're power signals that change how people respond to you before you even speak. But knowing what not to do is just as important. So, let me show you exactly what kills your credibility instantly. Let's flip the script and look at someone who, despite being one of the most successful entrepreneurs on the planet, shows you what not to do with your body language on Facebook's social media privacy and the use and dish and abuse of data. Although not unprecedented, notice how he's nodding awkwardly like a dashboard bobblehead on a bumpy road. That's not engagement. It's submission signaling. Excessive nodding makes you look like you're desperately seeking approval or agreement, even when you should be projecting authority. Real engagement means nodding only when you generally agree or when you want to encourage someone to continue. Now, watch his smile in this next clip. See how it looks like he was programmed maybe by his own algorithm. Nice. What else is coming? I love BeatSaber. Lay it on us. I'm excited. All right. Thanks, Deb. This is going to be amazing. I think it's time for my workout. But enough with the fun and games. Love the guy, but wow, this is awkward. Genuine smiles involve the eyes. This is what we call the dutching smile. While forced smiles, they stop right here, right? His mechanical grin actually undermines his credibility because people instinctively recognize inauthentic facial expressions. A neutral, thoughtful expression infinitely better than a fake smile. Another thing to be careful about, self-touching. These are gestures that make you feel calm, but they signal you're uncomfortable in your own skin. So, every time you adjust your hair, you know, your collar, you mess around with a pen, you're essentially saying, "I'm not very comfortable here. If you think you're alone, you're not." I have a member of my team who I love. She's very competent, but one of the other leaders in our business actually pointed something out to her. When she would communicate, she would be intensely listening, and automatically her hands would kind of go to her face, right in front of her lips. This is a huge problem for two reasons. One, what the  are you talking about? I can't see what she's saying. She's got her fingers in front of her face on a Zoom meeting. Total nightmare. Second is this is actually a trigger for lying. When you touch your face, there is a signal in our brain that tells us they're hiding something. Why? Cuz you're actually hiding your face. And it's almost like you don't trust the words that are coming out of your mouth. You might be the most trustworthy person in the planet, but if you're signaling you're not, think about it like then people are probably going to believe you. Another thing some people like to do is called prop blocking. Essentially, it's creating a physical barrier between you and who you're speaking with. It makes you appear closed off, untrustworthy. So, try not to do it. Instead, confident people don't keep their body closed or things in front of them. They don't hide behind objects or create barriers. They're open, accessible. If you have to have something in your hand, you keep it to the left. You keep it to the right, but you don't keep it in front. Now, notice Mark's posture during this video call. How unnaturally straight is this? I have to say, when you're building products to try to connect everyone in the world, um connecting folks who are out in space, um is about as extreme and cool as it gets. So, it's it's awesome to have the opportunity to Okay, again, an incredible guy, but it looks like he's following a manual on like how humans should sit. This posture makes him look uncomfortable, inauthentic, robotic. With real confidence, it's easy. You're alert, but not rigid. Present, but not performing. The most damaging aspect of poor body language isn't that it makes you look bad. It's that it makes people question your authenticity. When your words say one thing, but your body says another, people trust what they see more than what they hear. So Mark's disconnect between his verbal competence and his physical discomfort has caused the internet to call him a cyborg, which I don't know, maybe. And the irony is that his success proves that good ideas and execution can overcome poor presence. But imagine how much more influential he could be if his body language matched his brain. So the way you move can kill your credibility. But if you just pay more attention to your body movements, you can command respect without saying anything. And when you do that, you make more money, have bigger opportunities, and better deals. Think about it. People don't invest in ideas. They invest in the person presenting them. So, your body language either costing you money or making it. There's one more element that ties everything together. Your overall presence and how you show up authentically in any situation. So, you've mastered your voice. You fixed your body language. But there's still something missing. You can speak with perfect authority and stand with complete confidence, but if you're boring, people will still tune out. but it doesn't matter. So, the difference between someone who commands attention for 30 seconds and who gets it for 30 minutes is that they've mastered the art of being genuinely interesting. You have to fight the lazy. Someone asks you what you've been up to, you should have an answer that makes them lean in, not check their phone, or see who else is behind them. A simple compliment can go a long way to getting someone to be more interested in you. People love to be complimented. And if you genuinely point out something that you like about them, I do this almost every time I meet somebody. their style, their humor, nice bracelets, I like the hair, what are those earrings? This gives you an opportunity to continue the conversation. And if continuing the conversation is tough for you, practice yes. And this is a technique they use in improv school. Keeps conversations flowing, more open-minded, and fun. Basically, when someone shares an idea, acknowledge it or build on it. Don't shut it down. Don't change the subject. Don't jump to what you care about. You're going to turn the ordinary exchange into collaboration. So, for example, stop. I've got a gun. The gun? The gun I gave you for our wedding anniversary? Eric, how could you? We're not married. Aha. We're not married is a denial. We've learned our first improv lesson. This is actually a really good lesson for life. Because, think about it. What she's saying is, "Follow along with me. Don't shut me down." If you can do that in exchange, you can turn it into an adventure. If you want allies in your job and in your life, it's really good to be a yes and not a no thankser. We want to think about how to build on things as opposed to tear somebody else's down. Now, that is really hard to do when you know maybe that their idea is bad. You've already tried it. It's not going to work. Why would I listen to them? But instead, I want you to take a pause and think about if I wasn't allowed to shut somebody down, do you think they would feel better not getting shut down or worse after getting shut down? probably going to feel better if you don't shut them down. So try this in the beginning, especially when you're not in charge. This is a power move when you're not the CEO. And that is to go, "Yes, that idea is super interesting. I like it. What if we also did or what if we did this?" Or, "Have you thought about that?" It allows you to take their stance and you're going to add your spin to it. You even might actually be saying, "No, this instead." But the way that you say things matters. Try that and tell me what works. Next, just have an opinion. Interesting people take thoughtful stances, sometimes contrarian ones. Doesn't always mean you have to be rude. You could say, "I actually hate breakfast. I know people think it's the most important meal of the day. I think they're wrong." You could also say, "Huh, everybody today is talking about how there's a XYZ happening. I think it's a Y. What is a closely held belief that you have that would at least get somebody else to disagree with you or maybe agree with you?" This allows you to have a disrespectful or respectful conversation, but at least a memorable one. Next, let's talk about the way you look. If you're going to be in a business meeting and you want to make more money, what should you probably do? I don't know, dress in business clothes, right? Actually, before I came in here, I was in my jean dress only cuz we're going to film something else that's pretty chill after this. I was like, we're going to talk about confidence and we're going to talk about presenting. I should probably put on a blazer. This isn't rocket science. It has nothing to do with your waistline. You could be nice and round. You could be really skinny and either way you could present yourself well. Let's also think about what presentation you might have that's abnormal. Let's say that you are a lumberjack. You're looking for lumberjack activities. Does it make a lot of sense for you to show up in a suit clean shaven? No, it doesn't. So, whatever you are trying to accomplish, sometimes it's just easier to look the part. And lastly, here's something most people never think about. Mirroring. The most charismatic people unconsciously mirror the body language and speaking patterns of the people they're talking to. They match energy levels, speaking pace, and even posture. Instant rapport creation because people feel understood and connected. Perfect example, if I came into a room full of engineers, and I was like, "Hey guys, what's going on? I think we're going to do this. This is going to be so fun. You guys want to go get beers after work? It's going to be amazing. I'm having the best day ever. Go team, go." What are the engineers going to do? They're like, "This psychopath. First of all, we're not talking to each other. Everybody's got their Oculus on. We've got our sweatshirts over our heads. Don't talk to me. We talk like this." Simultaneously, if I'm an engineer and I walk into a room full of salespeople and I'm wearing said Oculus, I'm going to have a difficult time communicating with the meat eating salespeople. So, you want to mirror the person that you're talking to. Don't be a creep. Don't be Mark Zuckerberg trying to perfectly pattern what a human is like, but instead think about, huh, this person's a little soft spoken, so just calm down, Cody. Don't come so hard at them. This person's pretty intense. Amazing. I might speak faster, louder, with my hands more. This instant connection makes them feel seen without you having to say anything. Super fast case study. So, back in the day, I was a rather confident little rascal, and I sat in on a business meeting at a very large financial firm where I was working. In that meeting, there was a series of leaders in there who were all very confident. And one of them has what I would only describe as BDE, you know, sort of that big dick energy in meetings. And as we're sitting around this big conference table, he's kind of like slouching, you know, and like really just he he's taking up space. He's doing something like this, you know, kind of laying back. Really think about it. Everybody's leaned into him. And I think cuz I don't understand body language cues to hierarchy yet. I think that's why they're listening to him. Do you see how he's I'm going to do the exact same thing. So, super embarrassing little 22-year-old Cody walks into the next meeting to give a presentation to my managers. And as I'm presenting, I sit back. I'm like clicking through the slides like this, you know, talking like we're all buddies. I remember horrified. I thought I killed it, by the way. At the end of the meeting, I remember one of my bosses coming up to me because corporate life, I had like 52 bosses. Comes up to me and was like, literally, what are you doing? And I was like, oh no, were the numbers wrong? She's like, "No, why? Why did you do that weird thing where you leaned back and slouched everywhere?" And I had to embarrassingly say, "I heard this thing called mirroring and I was doing it because somebody else was doing it." So, be careful. There is a hierarchy to mirroring. Meaning, you can't come in and, you know, do a huge manspread on somebody who's a way higher hierarchy than you. I want you to mirror, but within your own frame. So, now you have my tricks you can try to apply to your day-to-day conversations and make more money. Let me show you exactly how this works in practice and what good and bad looks like live. Now, I'm going to take this all together and teach you how to ask for a raise the right way and the wrong way. Let's start by going back 20 years ago to Cody before I ran all these companies and show you how I would ask if I absolutely did not want to get a raise or make any money. Uh, hey boss. Um, do you just have a few minutes to talk about something uh that I've been thinking about recently? Oh, uh, okay. Uh, great. Um, so I um have been working really hard at the company. I think you probably noticed like other people have been talking about it and um I know that like the company's been doing really well and so um I think that I deserve a raise and uh I deserve a raise because um I do work really hard and um and so anyway, other people in the industry get raises um and make more money than I do and so I think that I should not going to make any money. Let me show you the right way to do it. Uh, first of all, ditch the props. It's okay if you have glasses. Ditch the blocker in front of you. The next thing you're going to do, instead of having a small position like this, you're going to be wide. Instead of having a constricted position, you're going to be open. Instead of having a closed leg position, you're going to stand steady on both feet. Your legs aren't going to be up here. They're not going to be by your your throat. They're instead going to be right around the middle. You're going to knock on the door and make eye contact. Remember 3 to 4 seconds. Hey boss, do you have a few minutes slower, no ums said the exact same thing. I wanted to talk to you. Little pause. You're making sure that that person has your attention. You have their attention. They're making eye contact with you. They're going to look up and say, "Okay, I wanted to talk to you about my job here at this company. Over the last couple of months, I've worked incredibly hard. Hopefully, you've noticed. You're very busy. So, I understand if you haven't. What's good about this? I'm using you language. I'm pausing. I'm using inflection. I'm also using my hands to mimic the motion, but not moving too much. You may have noticed or you haven't. I know you're quite busy. I researched and found that my position is really a market rate of X. Right now, I'm being paid why. Because of that, I'd like to make sure that we remedy that between the two. What are you doing now? Rational. You're showing left verse right. You're giving numbers to back it up. Numbers and statistics help your case immensely. When you're trying to communicate authority, then you're going to say, "Now I understand. What are you doing?" You back up for a second cuz you're trying to make them not feel threatened. You put your hands out like, "Hey, we're on the same page. We're trying to get to the same thing." And then you say, "I understand that just because a market makes X doesn't mean that I should be paid Y. So what I'd like to talk to you about is what I need to do to have my position be worth this to you. Is there something else that I can do today?" At which point you turn the raise conversation into an open negotiation. That is how you get a raise. Now, you might actually get a raise the other way. your likelihood will be a lot less and there will be disrespect by the way that you asked. So, I hope if you use the second way and you watch this video, you can comment on this video and tell me how much more money you actually got by asking your boss. Last little tip, film yourself. Cuz I think what you're going to find is you might think you're projecting authority and all of a sudden you're the one sitting weirdly on your foot leaning to the left or the right. You have something in front of you that is your prop block. You have ums and a's in your sentence. Instead, take a deep breath, refilm again until it's so cool, calm, and collected. You know, when you go into your boss's office, it won't be a problem. Commanding respect isn't about being the loudest person in the room or having the most impressive title. It's about mastering the fundamentals of how you speak, how you act, and how you show up authentically in every conversation. But the way you carry yourself is just the beginning. The real game changer is how you think. And if you want to learn how to think like the wealthy instead of just looking confident, I got you. Watch this next video.

----
The ONLY 3 Ingredients You Need To Be A Better Storyteller!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5HfeNDleTS4
There are only three ingredients you need to be a great storyteller. Nice editing, Peter. A lot of the times people over complicate storytelling. They think that you need a wild once in a lifetime experience or that you have to be naturally charismatic. You don't. You just need three simple ingredients to be more memorable and more influential. And research backs this up. In a Stanford study, students who turned facts into a story remembered 93% of the facts later. But those who didn't, they only remembered 13%. That's the power of storytelling. In this video, I'm going to tell you the three reasons why people avoid storytelling. My three most valuable ingredients that make storytelling easy. And this is exactly what I've been teaching my students in my workshops for over a decade. And finally, I'm going to break down for you when storytelling works best and when it actually gets in the way. Let's start with the three biggest misconceptions that people have. Starting with number one. You need crazy life experiences to tell good stories. Vin, my life just isn't that interesting. You see, that's where you're wrong. You think stories are about events, not meaning. If you haven't climbed the mountain and survived a disaster or lived through movie moments, you tend to assume you've got nothing to share. And as a result, you don't even attempt to tell stories. So you miss the opportunities to connect through everyday moments which are far more relatable than the grand adventures. And the irony is what makes a story powerful isn't what happened. It's the perspective you bring and the way you frame it. Let me give you an example. Yeah, I've got a bit of a confession to make. I've been a pretty bad dog owner lately since the kids have come along. My fur kids have been neglected to the max. Thankfully, my dogs, Link and Zelda, they forgive so easily, and sometimes I think they're more patient than human beings. We don't really deserve dogs, do we? So, I made a decision, right? I need to wake up at 4:00 a.m. to walk them to play fetch with their favorite bright orange ball. And I wrote a big number four on the orange ball as a public commitment to my wife and my kids that I was going to wake up at 4:00 a.m. to take them out every morning. And I know it sounds silly, but I have to do things like that to keep me motivated. And yes, I know that 4:00 a.m. is really early in the morning, too. But with two kids, that's the only time I've got. And at that hour, it's beautiful. The streets are completely deserted. There are no cars. The only light you see is the glow from the street lights bouncing off the damp road. The air is super cold and crispy. The only thing you can smell is the wet grass. And I love that smell. It's dead quiet. And the only sound that I hear is their collars jingling. And after just a few weeks of this routine, I realized something really unexpected. I thought the walk and the fetch was for the dogs. Turned out I needed the walk more than they did. My head feels clearer. My feet feel more grounded. And I've started to notice things I've haven't noticed in a decade. And the reason I'm telling you this story is because sometimes the things that we do out of responsibility end up being the things we needed for our own soul. This story wasn't about me climbing Mount Everest. It wasn't even about me making a million dollars per month. It was about me walking my dogs and thinking it was for them, but then realizing that the dogs were walking me and that I was the one who needed the walk. If only they would pick up my poo instead of me picking up theirs. What made this story valuable was the perspective that I shared, not the story itself. Are you starting to shift the way you think about storytelling? Now the second misconception, stories are just fluff. Facts and data are what matter. The reason you think this is because in business, in university, and even in family life, we're conditioned to be rational. Stick to the facts, Vin. But when you default to only facts, you lose the emotional stickiness that makes ideas memorable. People nod along politely, but they forget what you've said 5 minutes later. Without stories, your ideas fail to spread. And ironically, the fluff you've avoided your entire life, that's the glue that would have made the facts persuasive and memorable. I want you to think about this right at the start of the video, I gave you two statistics about storytelling. Do you remember what they are? I mean, do you tell me? Tell me right now. What are they? It's very unlikely you remember them. Now, how about my story about my dogs? What color was their favorite ball? You know the color, don't you? What was the number that I wrote on the ball? And why did I write the number there? Did you notice how you remembered every single detail about the story? You see, that's the power of storytelling. It's not fluff. It's one of the most memorable and influential communication devices we have access to. Were you surprised by that experience? Storytelling is just one of the most powerful tools when it comes to communication, and most people don't take the time to learn these. and I teach more foundational communication lessons in a free three-part video series that I've recorded. In this series, you're going to learn how to become more conscious of the behaviors that rob you of credibility and rob you of clarity so you can unlock your potential in your career and in your relationships. And if you want access to that, just click the link below in the description. The third misconception, storytelling is only for charismatic extroverts. You're either born a storyteller or you're not. Why are you talking like that, Vin? It sounds ridiculous. This is my YouTube video. I do what I want. If you're introverted or quiet, you will think to yourself, "That's just not me." And as a result of this, you never practice. So then you never improve. And then you rob yourself of the chance to discover how powerful storytelling is as a craft. And also discover that it's a learnable craft. The biggest misconception is thinking extrovert equals good storyteller. When in reality, some of the best storytellers, they're quiet. that people who've learned to use structure and timing rather than sheer energy and bravado. Those who purely rely on that sometimes can be alert. So I think we really do need to let them go. Guys, guys, guys, stop the meeting now. I have to tell you a story. This morning I left the house, thought it was going to rain, brought my umbrella, but then it didn't rain, so I carried my umbrella the whole day. Classic, right? Yes, it's classic. Yeah, sorry, that's nauseating. Just vomit in the back of my throat watching that. Awful. Let's dive into the three ingredients on how to be a great storyteller. Number one, be specific. You've probably heard people say, "Be specific when you tell a story." But what does that actually mean? Well, let me show you. Most people think being general makes you more relatable. They say, "Oh, I was nervous before a meeting." Okay, we've all been nervous before, but that doesn't stick. Now, listen to this. Oh, my palms were so sweaty and and the paper in my hands started to wrinkle from the shaking. Did you see, hear, feel, notice the difference? You're not just hearing about the nerves, you're feeling it. The detail makes it real. So, here's the rule of thumb. When you're telling your story, use the five senses framework. Ask yourself, what did I see? What did I hear, smell, taste, touch, or adding a sixth, a bonus? We keep the bonus locked in the safe. So, Dan, if we could get the secret out of the safe, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. The sixth one is emotion. And yes, he's been in there for about 4 days. Let me give you some quick examples. sight. I walked into the interview room and it's three people sitting in a row, all in dark suits, staring at me like I'm about to go on trial. Sound. The only thing I can hear is the clicking of someone's pen. It feels louder than my own heartbeat. Smell. There's a strong smell of coffee in the room. It's kind of like been sitting in a pot for way too long. Taste. My mouth was so dry. It felt like I've been chewing on cardboard. Touch. My hands started to feel so clammy. And then my collar felt like it was shrinking. And finally, emotion. And before they even asked me the first question, I felt this wave of panic overcoming me. And it was like my body was screaming, "You don't belong here." Each sense adds a brush stroke to your story. Together, they turn into a painting. people can step into and experience. And here's the science. Specific details activate the listener's mirror neurons. And this means their brain doesn't just process your words, it simulates the experience. So if you describe the strong smell of coffee, the audience brains light up as if they're smelling it. That's why stories with detail stick. They bypass the logic and hit the experience. When you don't storytell, this is what happens. You'll tell the story, people aren't engaged, and at the end, what do you say? You go, "No, no, you you had to have been there. You had to have been there. You had to have been there." That's what bad storytellers say. With this next skill, you take them there. Number two, reporting versus reliving a story. Most people think they're actually telling and reliving stories, but in actual reality, they're reporting stories. And there's a huge difference. Reporting is information. Reliving is transformation. Let me show you. Last night I walked on stage. I was nervous. Then I gave my talk. Yeah, it's true. It's accurate, but it's also flat. You're basically giving people the Wikipedia version of your life. Now, let me give you the version where I relive the exact same story. I step onto the stage and the spotlights are so bright I can't even see the front row. I was so nervous. My hands were shaking so hard the notes were rattling like crazy. And the imposter syndrome in my head was saying, "You don't belong in this room, Vin, with all these amazing people." And every single face in the audience, they're staring right back at me. Even though I was nervous, I still delivered my talk scared. Do you feel the difference? You're not just hearing what happened. You're in it with me. You can see it, hear it, and you can feel it yourself. You almost heard the paper rattling, didn't you? When you relive a story, something happens in your body. Your voice changes, your face changes, even your gestures. They shift. Why? Because you're reliving it yourself as you tell the story. And the audience doesn't just understand what you went through, they actually experience it. That's the magic. Reporting informs. Reliving makes them feel like they lived it with you. So, how do you get better at this? Let me share with you three quick tips. First, use the five senses or six senses. Like I spoke about before, what did you see, hear, smell, taste, or touch and feel in that moment. One vivid detail is all you need. Second, change your tense. Don't say, "I was standing there nervous." Instead, say, "I'm standing there. My palms are sweating. My chest is tight." Using present tense in your stories is how you relive it. Third, let your body join in on the story. If your hands are shaking, shake your hands. Let it actually shake while you're telling the story. Now, I know what you're thinking. I can relive the story. I can share all the specific details of a story, but why would anybody care? It's because you need the final ingredient, which is number three. Share the meaning of the story. Now, here's the part that most people miss. A story isn't powerful just because you relive it. It's powerful because of the meaning you share after it. Life really is like a dance. Oh my god, Jessica. Jessica, I got to tell you something. This morning, I thought it was going to rain, so I brought an umbrella. It didn't rain, so I carried an umbrella the whole day for no reason. So, why are you telling me this? Cuz it's funny. Terrible storyteller, right? But damn, he's got one hell of a jawline. The meaning is what makes the story useful. It's what transforms your story into a gift for the audience who's listening. Without it, you're just telling campfire tales. With it, you're now teaching, inspiring, and shifting someone's perspective. Here's how I think about it. The story is the doorway, but the meaning is what you lead people into once they've walked through the door. When you say the magical words, the reason I'm telling you this is because that's the moment your audience connects the dots and understands why the story relates to them. And right there and then is the most important part, relevance. The most important part of storytelling is the meaning. You guys want to give it a go? Yeah, sure. My I guess my story is on stage fright and I suppose the meaning is about being courageous. Is that right, Dan? That's that's more than right. That's beautiful. My story is about being locked in a safe for 4 days. And I think the meaning is that I'm very lucky to have a boss like Vin. Is that right? It's more than right, Peter. That's actually the correct answer. All right. All right. So, my story about carrying an umbrella around all day. The meaning of that is I don't think anybody in the office likes me. I don't think anybody listens to me when I storytell. I don't have any friends. What? Let me add an extra lesson here. The link you make from the story to the lesson, it needs to make sense. This is why the best storytellers, they don't stop after the end of the story, after the punch line. They deliver the punch line, then they deliver the point, then they deliver the relevance, the lesson. Because your audience doesn't just want to know what happened to you. They want to know, well, what does it mean for them? That's how stories stick. They remember how it applies to their own lives. And that association is what makes it extremely memorable. And the final part, when storytelling works best and when it actually gets in the way. Here's a simple rule that I follow. If I've got 15 minutes or more with you and I want to be memorable and influential, I'm sharing a story. Let me give you an example of this here. During this Q&A, one of my students ask me a very deep and meaningful question. Have a listen to this. I have a question about your entrepreneurial journey. Sure. There's a saying. It's kind of got a biblical context to it. Sure. What get gets you out of Egypt doesn't take you to paradise. Meaning sometimes you might need to get yourself out of somewhere you don't want to be before you can pursue chasing a dream or going somewhere you want to be. Yes. Could you please reflect on that in terms of your journey? Do you notice the way he asked me? I could tell that this question meant a lot to this student of mine and I could have literally just gave a really short answer and just say yes. I had to change who I am. Next question. But I didn't want to do that. This was a moment I knew that if I answered this well and I told a story and made the lesson memorable, I can change this young man's life. I can inspire him. So here's what I did instead of giving a short answer. The place that I didn't want to be was living in the discomfort of not knowing what I should do with my life. I hated that. But that was so necessary because I think often people don't realize that. and please speaking out of my area of expertise here. Okay, so we're just friends and this is venturing into a fairly deep space. Sitting in the discomfort of my early 20ies of not knowing what I'm going to do for the rest of my life, being presented with security, a path that most take, a script that most will write in their life because it's a default script society has told me to write versus blank pages and you can go and explore and write whatever story you want to write. Sitting in that space was me in Egypt. It was so difficult. I knew that I had to do some of this to be able to gradually do this. My heart wanted to immediately go and explore, but reality required me to work in a takeaway store first. I I I do this all the time when I come back from big gigs, right? I will always drive back to the takeaway store that I worked at, order a meal, sit in the food court, and eat it because I used to cook that meal. I used to deep fry hot chips and I used to stand in front of an oil all day. my face filled with acne because I did that. I did that for years. I worked at a petrol station at night so I could make more money because they paid more money for the nighttime hours. I worked at a petrol station in Semur in Adelaide. So I'd work all day 9 till 5 at a takeaway store and then after that I would go to the petrol station, get there at 6:00 and I work till about 12:00 at night cuz that's when I close. And then there were times when I'd then have to go to nightclubs to do magic because I would try to do magic to keep people in line. And I arranged with the club owners, if I can keep more people in line for you, you'll make more money because when the line's too long, people leave. I'll be the magician in line for you. Right? So, I started doing all this and started getting paid. I hated being around drunk people. I don't drink. I suffered in that path so I can create enough of a runway so I can buy blank pages to then go write my story. But I had to I had to go get money to buy the blank pages. I wasn't gifted blank pages. So then I got my blank pages and I started writing. And then you know what happened, Rev? Ran out of money to buy more blank pages before I found my way back to making money to buy blank pages. Notice the difference. Wasn't sharing a story like that way more impactful? And I know for a fact because I did that, I didn't just impact that young man. I inspired a lot of people in that room on that day. Now, if you've got significantly less than 15 minutes and you're in a situation like this, Vin, can we deliver by Friday? Yes or no? Once upon a time, there was a turtle named Yes. And then there was a hair named No. It's not the story you're thinking of. Trust me, you don't know this one. And then basically, the turtle is really slow and consistent. And the hair the hair is really sometimes the most influential thing you can do is give a straight and precise answer. Other times it's to tell a story. And mastery is knowing which moment you're in. And before I share something with you that's really important to me, I need to put away someone who's really important to me. Please. Thank you. Thank you, Dad. Let's make sure we lock that up as well. I can't afford to lose that guy. [Music] Perfect. Thank you. You, as you're sitting there watching this right now, your life is a story. Go live the story you want to tell. My team and I, we wanted to be able to tell a story where in 2026, we can say, "Do you remember that time we went to Dubai for New Year's? And at the end of this year, we are going to live the story first so we can tell it in 2026. Don't forget, you are the one holding the pen. You are the author of your story. This is just one of five skills that I wish I learned in my 20s. And if you want to learn the other four skills, click this video here to continue the journey with

----
Storytelling in PowerPoint: Learn McKinsey’s 3-Step Framework
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CY1Y367KEko&t=102s
when a company like McKenzie starts a project their goal isn't to build a presentation that sits on a shelf and gathers dust the goal is to influence their clients to implement their recommendations but how does a firm like McKenzie actually influence their clients well there is this whole stakeholder management process that happens throughout the project but ultimately McKenzie are building a slide deck that is designed in such a way that it persuades their client to take action and it looks something like this McKinsey were brought in by King County Seattle to address their homelessness Challenge and what you're looking at is the output of the project but it's actually the storyline that underpins this deck that McKinsey uses to influence their clients so in this video we're going to break down this slide deck to understand how firms like McKenzie create these storylines that influence and will learn how to do it ourselves the storyline is the most important part of the slide deck a really good storyline will persuade the reader to act a really bad storyline it's going to fall completely flat and as you might imagine top consulting firms like McKinsey BCG and Bain have turned storylining into an absolute science and they found a universal storyline structure that you can apply to any slide deck and it's called the scqa or scr framework it's actually very interesting because this storyline structure is found absolutely everywhere you can find it in films books plays cartoons poems TV shows absolutely everywhere so it's not a surprise that top consulting firms have taken the storyline and applied it to their slide decks so let's walk through the storyline structure to give you an idea of exactly how it works now scr and scqa are used interchangeably and they're very very similar McKinsey actually prefers the scripture as you can see here in one of their papers but what I'll do is I'll walk through scr but I also reference the QA part as well to give you an idea of how it all fits together so let's start with the S which is the situation and this is really giving the reader the prior context or knowledge that they need to have to understand the rest of the story but more importantly it's introducing the topic or the problem and explaining why it's important and why you should care about it so that's the situation next is complication so complication is now introducing the problem so you're saying this is the problem that arose but then you're also saying why the problem is such a terrible thing you're really setting the scene and telling the audience that you should really pay attention to it so in the pure scripture we jump straight to resolution but I want to touch on the cue here which is question so the question is implied it's not something that you actually need to say in your presentation you don't need to ask any questions but the implied question is what should we do about the problem so now we jump to r or a in this case we're talking scr so we'll talk about the resolution the resolution talks about the specific Solutions or recommendations that you're making to address the problem so what you're saying here is here's the blueprint for solving the problem that I just talked about in the complication that's it that's the scripture in its entirety it's really really simple as you can see but it's also very effective and we'll look at why so what I want to do now is I want to look at whether McKenzie used an scr storyline in their King County homelessness project so the first thing I'll do is I'll flip through the presentation and write out all of the slide titles as bullet points in word now there are about 15 slides here so even though I'm going to speed this up a little bit it might take a little while and AK so you can see I've extracted the complete storyline end to end so now we need to see if we can neatly break them down into an scr structure so I'm going to work my way down the storyline and see if I can find each of the stages the situation the complication and the resolution so start with the situation I can see here that McKinsey is setting the context with the first two slides and they're really saying that homelessness is increasing in King County and as I read down I can see at the third slide yeah I've noticed that they've changed the focus slightly and they're now explaining why homelessness is a problem so before it was that homelessness is a problem and now they're explaining why it's a problem they do that up to about slide 10 where they start talking about how to address the homelessness problem now I'm going to see if I can summarize that entire storyline into three sentences so I'm going to start with a situation and one way we can summarize that is something like homelessness is a problem in King County now for the complication it looks like overall what they're saying is the homelessness problem is getting worse because the cost of rentals is increasing faster than incomes and then for the resolution the overall sentiment is investment in affordable housing would address the problem and is actually cheaper than the opportunity cost of homelessness so this is a great example of how top consulting firms like McKinsey BCG and Bain use the scr or scqa storyline in their slide decks it's not there explicitly and you have to go digging for it but they definitely do apply the structure now let me show you how you can write storylines just like this so before I teach you exactly how to write these storylines yourself it's worth mentioning where we are in the project by the time you're story lining you will have completed all of your analysis all of your synthesis and you will have come up with some conclusions or recommendations for your client so the storyline process is all about packaging the conclusion that you already have in a way that's really persuasive for your client so with that in mind let's jump into how to write it so the biggest mistake that people make when they've finished their analysis is that they jump into PowerPoint they start building slides but instead of doing that you should jump into word and the reason why we work in word is because that's the best place to storyline and here's why so firstly it's easier to read a storyline when it's on a single page in word as opposed to across multiple slides in Powerpoint secondly writing a storyline is an iterative process so you'll write your first draft you'll give it to your manager they'll have feedback you'll re-draft it and you'll iterate on the storyline multiple times and again that's much easier to do in Microsoft Word and thirdly as McKenzie say PowerPoint is not a very good tool for highlighting logical connections and ensuring that your storyline is bulletproof it's really hard to find contradictions on slide 3 and on slide 19 when it's in PowerPoint so the best place to do it is in word so when you're Inward and you're writing a storyline there's actually a framework or a structure that McKinsey use and it's called the dot dash structure now it's very simple but very very powerful dots are bullet points and the bullet points refer to the key statement in the storyline then under each of the bullet points you'll have dashes and the dashes reference the supporting data that justifies the statement above so hopefully that makes sense but if it doesn't don't worry because I'm going to show you an example of writing the storyline itself so as an example let's imagine that where storylining for the King County homelessness project and we're doing it for the first time so in this example the slide deck hasn't been built so the first thing we would do is we would distill and synthesize all of our analysis and figure out what it's saying and come up with conclusions we then draft up the storyline so when we do that every statement in the storyline is a DOT and all the dots have supporting data as dashes let's start with the first statement of the storyline and the statement says though the King County point in time count dropped in 2019 homelessness continues to increase so that is the dot in the dot dash storyline and the dashes are the supporting data which is something like between 2008 and 2019 the homelessness population Grew From 9000 to 11 200 and then between 2016 and 2018 the number of households experiencing homelessness at any point in the year Grew From uh 20.7 000 to 22.5 000 which is a growth of 4.2 percent per year and then we continue with the rest of the storyline and end up with something like this so basically this is the draft storyline and once we've done on that we need to review it with our manager and make sure it captured the argument well and positioned it properly for the audience and there's no changes we need to make generally there will be changes so we'll iterate with our manager and refine the storyline over time it is important however that we make all of the refinements now before we start building slides because it's much easier to make changes here in word at this stage and any changes that we make later in PowerPoint are probably going to mean that we rebuild slides so we want to avoid that as much as possible and finalize the storyline in Word so once the storyline is finalized and we're happy with it it's finally time to open up PowerPoint now finally in PowerPoint and we're going to build our slide skeleton this is actually two important parts of any Slide the first one is the action title and this explains the so what of the slide and then we have the slide body and that contains all the data and the visualizations that support the action title and related to these two things there's actually two Logics or flows that you need to be aware of in your slide deck the first one is the horizontal flow and this means as you flick through the slide deck and read the action titles they tell a complete story without you having to read the slide bodies so it means that you can you can understand the argument by just reading the action titles across all the slides second is the vertical flow and it says if you do read the slide bodies they fully support the action titles and this means that there's nothing set in the action title that isn't justified by some kind of data or visualization in the slide body now lucky for us because we drafted our storyline in word using a dash structure it's very simple the dots are the action titles and the dashes turn into charts that sit in the slide body and support the action title so if we're lucky we'll be able to Simply copy the dots in our storyline and drop them in as action tiles in the slides but in reality there's probably some level of refinement you need to do to make the action titles work for your slides but nonetheless we should end up with a slider that looks something like this so the storyline is complete the action titles are written so all that's left to do is to build the slide bodies and as a side note I've quite a simple methodology for translating data into visualizations for your slide bodies so if you want to learn that I can do another video on it so please just drop a comment in the comment section below so here's a bird's eye view of everything we learned in this video if you want to take a screenshot please do but also if you want to learn more about building uh executive ready Consulting style slide decks check out my Course There's the link in the description below

----
Communicate With Confidence: The Blueprint For Mastering Every Conversation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fVaPJI95qvc
Every breakthrough or breakdown in our life starts with a single conversation. We're all trying to become better communicators. Even though I've been a CEO and I grew up on stage as a musician, I've often fumbled and failed when the stakes were high. These eight powerful mental shifts transformed the way I communicated and they may help you as well. Let's get started. First up, communicating is the hardest thing to do for humans. We don't actually hear what people say. We hear what our brain wants to hear. Research from neuroscientist Lisa Felman Barrett shows that the human brain is a prediction machine. It's not a tape recorder. It fills in the meaning before the sentence is even complete. This pattern matching and prediction is something that evolution perhaps wired into us to decrease our response time or increase our chance of survival. It makes sense, right? If the tiger is jumping at me, I better be pattern matching very quickly. So this is why when the great Jimmyi Hendris famously sang, "While I kiss the sky, excuse me, while I kiss the sky," millions of us heard, "While I kiss this guy, true story." And here's the thing, there are more than 7,000 living languages in the world today. So if my brain can only decode in Spanish and yours can only communicate in Swahili, we would need a translator before we can communicate with each other, right? But the same translation gap exists when we speak in the same language because there are four layers that distort every message. What you meant to what you said to what they heard to what they interpreted. What you meant isn't what they heard and what they heard isn't what they will remember. Next is number two. The medium complicates the message. As a general rule, call when it matters, text when it's safe. Of course, we all love texting. It's super convenient. How many times have you crafted that perfect text and perfect email only to see it blow up in your face? Why? Because it wasn't received as well as you had intended. So, this is the second shift you have to make. Tone doesn't travel through text. Meaning gets scrambled through the medium. So, you must match the medium to the moment, to the message. Here's a simple framework I used to help me choose the right medium. CPR, complexity, pressure, response. When the topic is complex or the emotional stakes are high or it requires a two-way conversation, it's better to talk. If at least two of those three are high, it's better to pick up the phone or meet in person. If you're giving feedback, if you're resolving conflict or giving comfort to someone, it's better not to do it over text. A lot of the misfires and drama in my life would have been completely avoided if only I had a real conversation instead of texted. You're typing on a device that is designed for your voice and emotions. On to number three. Are you really listening? Chris Rock has this great line. People don't really listen. They're just waiting for their turn to talk. This happens to me all the time. I nod politely and I act like I'm a very good listener. Listening is not about nodding politely or acting like you're a great listener. It's a full body mind connection of being there for that person, not playing your own record over their song. If you want them to understand you, they first have to feel understood. But I use this listening mixer framework as if I am a DJ and I have a mixer and I have these four buttons. The first button is a mute button. If someone starts speaking to you, try not to think about what you'll say next. Mute. Second is the pause button. After they're done talking, take a breath. Let there be silence. Give your brain some time to process what you just heard. Third, record button. Read their tone, their energy, their emotion to understand the context. Mirror what they have said to build some trust. And the fourth is the playback button. Only now can we speak? Because now when we do it, we'll speak in the same emotional key and that will build comfort that will build trust. Number four is next. Are you hiding behind your words without even realizing it? Long time ago, my boss gave me perhaps one of the most critical feedback of my entire career. He said, "Sandep, you hide behind your humor. you deflect. You use sarcasm instead of cander and it's going to make people unsure of who you are and how to trust you. And that hit me like a truck. And he was right. I was hiding behind jokes because I was insecure. And some of us hide behind jargon. And there is enough research done on this concept of cognitive load theory which says that the harder someone has to work to understand you, the less they will remember what you said. So try to be simple. And here are some things you can do immediately. Instead of saying leverage, say use. Instead of saying strategy, say plan, simplify. Next is number five. And this affects everyone. Panic under pressure. Most people panic when asked a tough question. When I was leading large teams, I would sit through endless meetings where I would catch someone or even myself just rambling on and on instead of directly answering the question. So we created a framework called the art of the answer to teach folks to speak clearly when they're under pressure. So apply this framework in meetings or interviews or any highstakes conversation. Art is a art. A stands for answer the question. But don't build up to the punch line. Start with it. Just answer the question directly and precisely. R stands for the reveal. Now add a reason or a story or an insight. Now explain the why behind the what? Something that adds depth and context. Tie it back. You took off. Now land the plane. Loop back to the original question and show clarity. When you are in any high-tech situation, in a job interview, in a tough client call, or in a boardroom, use this art of the answer to be direct, precise, and concise. And in those moments, clarity becomes a gift to you, to them, to the room. The sixth tip is all about what to do when you freeze. I remember when I was young, I was working as an equity analyst at an investment bank. I had my first highstakes client call and they were a huge hedge fund worth billions of dollars and the fund manager asked me a question about a financial model that we had sent over. And yes, this was my turn to be under pressure and answering someone who had asked a very tough question. Now, I was supposed to be the expert. And I didn't know the answer. I just completely froze. And in the middle of the conversation, click. I just hung up. Yeah, that happened. That's what panic does to you. It's just a complete freeze. But I knew what to do from my monk days. So, I did some deep breathing. I calmed down. I walked over to my boss. I told him what had happened. He walked me through how to answer the question. I walked back. I picked up the phone. I called the client and I gave him the answer. And he was so surprised that I had hung up in the middle of a conversation. But he was also happy that we were taking care of him by sharing our best thinking. So panic will hijack your brain. Your preffrontal cortex goes offline during panic. And when that happens, find a way to calm down, center yourself, own your mistakes, and find a solution. High performers don't shine because they never panic. They shine because they don't fall apart when that happens. Presence beats perfection. Number seven, your voice is your signature. Here's what we never learn in school. The quality of your voice starts with the quality of your breath. I learned three things from this great opera singer in Boston. Number one, speak from your core. And if you can't, then speak from your chest because that will improve the resonance of your voice. Number two, find your right vocal register that makes your voice sound attractive. Do you want to talk like this or do you want to talk like that? It depends on your voice and your choice. And you can vary the pitch from all the way here, all the way there. But you got to pick the right register. And number three, control the ending. So a lot of folks that I know have this question mark style of talking where every sentence ends at a high note. Human ears equate that to questioning. So here's a simple practice. Record yourself. Audio, video, listen to it, review it, apply those three ideas. Because in business, in leadership, in life, your voice is your instrument. And the more you learn to play that instrument with grace, with power, with fluidity, the more impact your communication will have. So, you got to harness its power. Last is number eight. The world doesn't need more noise. It needs better conversation. How many of us remember the full speech that Dr. Martin Luther King gave that day? I don't. All we remember are those four magical words. I have a dream. I have a dream. Four words that are etched in America's psyche. The words mattered because we could feel the presence and the emotion behind them. When I was a CEO, I had this simple practice. When someone walked into my office, I would close the laptop or physically turn away the computer screen and just sat in front of them. It told the person who walked in that now you have my full attention. That's the deepest truth about communication because attention is the rarest form of love that if you want to master communication then give your attention, give your emotions, give your intention to the other person. Generosity makes you the best communicator. Just try to focus on the next conversation fully and without judgment because who knows that one conversation could change someone's life. So these were the eight shifts that helped me change the way I communicated. I hope you found them useful. What strategies and tactics have you seen or implemented? Please share. If you found this video helpful, please subscribe. That way you'll communicate to YouTube algorithm that these ideas can help others as well. Also check out my video on how to build a life that's rich in every way. Building a career, building a business, and of course building wealth. Thank you and I love

----
Give me 9min, and I'll improve your storytelling skills by 176%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNuAv-42jzY
hey there storytelling is one of the most powerful tools to hook your listeners and keep them glued to every word you say but hey a lot of the advice that is out there make it sound way too complicated but the truth is storytelling is actually pretty simple if you know what really matters if you just give me 9 Minutes you'll discover the five storytelling techniques to tell insanely good stories but before we do that let me show you a quick example by John Kinski whom you might know from the office it's a 20 second story so really short but it's so powerful by the end of today you'll know exactly how to tell stories just like him and then I said yeah and he said says uh who are you visiting here I said my wife and he says is she an actress I said yeah he said would I know her I I don't know man her name's Emily Blunt he goes he goes you and I went yeah and he goes you you married Emily Blunt now I go yeah and he goes this okay go did you notice what he did there he didn't just summarize the events he didn't say oh yeah back then I was at customs and the agent asked me what I was doing and I responded I was an actor and he was very surprised he doesn't do that he doesn't summarize the events instead he zoomed into the moment of the story the best stories don't just summarize events they don't stay at that helicopter level they zoom into the moment they take us into the trenches they let us be part of that physical moment the good thing is it's not that difficult I'm now going to show you five techniques that you you can use in all of your stories first technique location say where you are the best stories start by stating the location where are you physically examples 2 weeks ago I'm sitting on my couch in my living room taking a deep breath or September 2019 I'm standing in front of the conference room ready to walk inside now why does it matter to State the location because the moment you say conference room or living room your audience will start to visualize it they're like o yes I I know a conference room and they start to visualize their version of that conference room now beginner storytellers they often do the mistake that they give too many details they're like oh in that conference room there was a big table a television and a wooden floor don't do that don't do that it doesn't matter just stay the location as long as they can visualize it it doesn't matter all the details they have their own version of that location second technique actions what are you doing in that specific moment of the story instead of giving way too much context about all the random stuff that doesn't matter just say what are you doing in that specific moment that can be walking biking shouting reading waiting whatever it is just State the actions State the verbs examples I'm in my office I open my laptop and start reading a message by my manager or 2 weeks ago I'm at the airport waiting and lineing at security now why does it matter to State the actions because it brings in forward momentum it takes the listener right into the moment when you do that your audience will immediately know that you won't waste their time you're straight away taking them into the most important part of the story third technique thoughts what are you thinking we as humans have thousands and thousands of thoughts every single day a lot of those thoughts are hopes dreams plans fears worries crazy thoughts now share some of those thoughts of that crucial moment of the story example instead of saying I was excited to meet my crush say I thought ah this will be so cool right finally I can see her after all that time or instead of saying I was very disappointed about that presentation say I thought oh man this is bad right everyone will think now I'm stupid I can never go back there do you see the difference it's a tiny tweak but it makes any story more interesting but hey a common mistake is that people share thoughts that sound too professional too intellectual they say something like I thought this represents a supreme opportunity now would your thoughts actually sound like that probably not right and so what you want to do is when you share your thoughts give us the raw unfiltered thoughts give us those a little bit like ranchy juicy a little bit neurotic thoughts now that will make your story much more relatable fourth technique emotions what are you feeling the best stories they're emotional they take the listeners on this emotional journey and now with the thoughts with the previous technique you know now one technique to make it more emotional but there's another one the simplest way is to just stay an emotion so you say something like I was disappointed I was relieved I was happy now that is pretty standard right that is what most people do but it's not ideal because it is not really visual right when you hear someone saying I was disappointed well you cannot visualize it and so the better way is to show the emotion show how it looks on the body on the face when you experience that emotion let me give you some examples instead of saying I was relieved say in that moment I lean backward and let out this big or instead of saying he was anxious say he kept tapping his pen on the on this table and he kept glancing up to the clock every few seconds do you see the difference showing the emotion makes it much more visual it takes us into the specific moment of the story technique number five dialogue what are you hearing many of your stories will have more than one character maybe a manager your friend a coworker your dog whoever it is now what did the character say in that crucial moment of the story what were the exact words examples instead of saying my friend was very disappointed say in that moment my friend looked at me and said Phillip what on Earth was that or instead of saying my manager was very happy with my work say in that moment my manager looked at me and said wow that was really the best presentation you've ever given now do you see the difference dialogue is such a simple tool to make any story much more interesting it is actually the tool that I use the most but I guess there's just one thing to keep in mind similar as with the thoughts share the dialogue that is a little bit more interesting a little bit more juicy if you say something like in this moment my manager said well I'm very dissatisfied with the inadequate execution of that project well that would sound super boring right instead pick much more juicy much more concise and catchy doll all right now that you know the five most important elements in storytelling let's watch a quick one minute video to see those elements in action that story is by Sarah Willingham who's a British entrepreneur investor and CEO of nightcap now when you watch the story see how she zooms into the moment can you spot when she shares the location the actions the thoughts the dialogue and the feelings so in my mid-20s I was running Acquisitions for pizzza Express and walked into a meeting room I was 2 minutes late for the meeting and the person on the opposite side of the table the lawyer looked up and said oh thank goodness for that mine's uh white with one sugar please so I thought okay this is a moment walked around to the coffee made him his coffee but the coffee in front of him and said would anybody else like a coffee and um nobody said anything nobody wanted one I made myself a coffee and then sat back down again opposite him and as he looked up I watched the C drain from his face as he realized this enormous assumption that he' made and it was such a beautiful moment in my career really empowering when I sat there and realized that actually this moment where I'd had impostor syndrome anyway running a meeting like this but I'd been completely misjudged by the people on the opposite side of the table was actually this incredible superpower cuz guess who walked out with the Dale what an incredible Storyteller right today you learned the foundations you learned how to tell insanely good stories but hey there are also a few more advanced storytelling techniques out there in case you want to go deeper on this journey I would suggest to check out this next video in which you learn how to be a better Storyteller than 99% of the people see you there

----
7 Years of Storytelling Advice in 54 Mins
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CqDItsy4JVY&t=1331s
by now I've coached thousands of people on storytelling gave storytelling workshops to companies like Google medlife visa and many more and I'll also publish the number one bestseller the story selling method now the stuff that you're about to learn has taken me years to figure out to save you the time I'm going to compress everything that I know into 20 lessons after this video you'll know everything you ever need to know to tell ins insanely good stories first lesson don't use the sword a few weeks ago I was leading this storytelling Workshop here in the Netherlands and at one point one of the participants he stood up and began with um let me tell you a story okay right in that moment I interrupted him whoa hold on there um can you start over but this time without the sww confused he said uh what's the sww I said it's story can you start your story without saying oh let me tell you a story now why should you avoid saying story because some people certainly not everyone but some people hear the word story and it triggers almost like this negative expectation they may think oh great here it comes a 15minute fairy tale do we really have time for this good thing is you can easily avoid that reaction so instead of saying story say experience case example or event for instance if you're sharing a story in front of of your friends you can say two weeks ago I had this crazy crazy experience and then launch into your story or if you're sharing a story at work you can say let me quickly share an example to really show that point okay and then launch into your story it's a subtle but very important shift and with that clear let's now look into the next lesson second lesson start story strong or SSS you have 7 Seconds to grab your audience's attention if you spend those crucial seconds setting expectations or providing so much context you know what happens H what should I eat for dinner tonight pizza or pasta wait what is that guy even talking about you only have one chance to make this first impression make it count obviously you don't have to do that well unless you want to which is also cool but let me now share three ways to start you a story strong first jump into action jump into the scene where something is happening make the character do something talking biking stepping reading anything that brings in forward momentum example I stood in front of the manager's door took a big breath knocked three times and slowly opened the door as I peeed inside I saw my manager the head of a jar Amelia knew this was isn't good second ask a question ask a question that makes your audience reflect on their own experiences or feelings it's a great way to make them think and connect with your story example have you ever wondered what it would be like to just walk away from everything that you ever known and start over well that's exactly what I did when I packed my backs and moved across the entire country and third use a cliffhanger start your story as close as possible to the most crucial part of the story show your listeners that this moment is going to be huge but don't share everything yet example I was standing in my room with a letter in my hand I knew that was it I knew that this letter would change my life forever but hey let's wind back to when it started all of those three hooks work incredibly well if you start your story strong your audience will be with you in that story fully present now the hook is crucial but I guess if the foundation Is Not Great you won't be able to keep their attention to have the right foundation the next lesson is absolutely essential third lesson Master one story structure now when I started on my storytelling journey I had this moment that made me question how storytelling is taught back in 2020 I took this very expensive storytelling course here in the Netherlands there they taught their hero's journey which is that beautiful 17-step story structure used in films like Star Wars or a lot of the Rings now I love that structure and I thought I'm going to try this out at work sure the customer will love it so next day I'm in a meeting with that customer launching into my breathtaking story expecting the client to be blown away well that didn't exactly happened halfway into the story the customer started to look away and it almost felt like he was uncomfortable with my story after hearing my story he awkwardly entered the call and said oh thanks okay we'll be in touch all right and he left the call confused I sat there and I thought wait what just went wrong it wasn't until I called my sister that I realized the problem she said philli obviously your stories are too big too long hey this is not a TED Talk this is a casual conversation and there it hit me the structure that they teach in most of the courses it's useful for these big stages but it's completely useless for the stories we tell in front of our friends or at work those casual stories should be 1 to 2 minutes long and then one to 2 minutes you don't have the time to cover 17 steps of the hero's journey you need need something much simpler but still effective that's when I developed a structure that changed my life and that will work for almost any of the stories that you will tell it's called c t or card and it's made up of four steps context adversity resolution and takeaway think of your structure like this card in the supermarket that holds together all the awesome ingredients or elements of your story or I guess if you also want to remember it just remember remember it rhymes on fart let's break it down step one context first set the scene for your story give your listener some basic context where and when does the story take place who's the main character and what do they want example it was October 2019 I was in Amsterdam rushing to the train station I had to be there on time to catch the train for my job interview the company that I've always dreamed about they' invited me for an interview that's it who went when where what boom just a few sentences to establish the setting and then move into the most important part of the story as quickly as possible step two adversity next you want to introduce the conflict or the challenge that that main character faces this is really the heart of the story this is where things go wrong or where the tension builds now the adversity can be anything difficult decision another person an emotional challenge a physical challenge anything as as long as it's substantial for that main character example as I reached the station I realized and left my wallet at home he Panic said in and I thought how am I going to pay for the train what if I miss my interview I searched every single pocket but I just couldn't find my wallet now this is really the part where the tension builds up show what is at stake let us know how the character feels in that moment this step is usually the longest and most engaging part of the story step three resolution now you want to describe how the character deals with that adversity what actions do they take what decisions do they make and crucially how does the story resolve at the end example just when I thought that I'd miss my train I saw a woman who saw my Panic approach me and offered me to buy my ticket I couldn't believe it I made it to my interview just in time up to this point the story is in interesting story but your listeners don't really know why you're telling them that story that's when you move into the last step step four takeaway finally tell your audience what you learn from that experience what realization did you have what is the point of going through all of that example what I learned from that experience is that unexpected help shows up when you needed the most and I guess also to just double check my pockets the next time I leave my house when you share that takeaway avoid things like saying the moral of the story or you should take away why because that can make you sound a little bit preachy instead frame it as something you learned is a little bit softer less preacher is okay mastering this simple four-step structure context adversity resolution takeaway will give you your stories this really strong Foundation it's quick to learn flexible enough to adapt to most situation and it helps your story really to be clear concise nice and at the end engaging but hey you can still tell a pretty average Story by having a great structure that's why the next lesson is absolutely crucial lesson number four show don't tell one of the golden rules in storytelling is to show don't tell so instead of directly telling your audience how the character feels show how it looks show the emotions the actions the environment and bring your listeners into the story it should feel as if the story was happening to them but not going to lie when I first heard show don't tell I didn't really get it back then I had no interest in writing a novel and it seemed that all of the advice out there was for writers now listening to thousands of oral stories I realized that there are actually three techniques of show on tell that are super simple but very very effective first technique use dialogue dialogue is a powerful tool for for showing rather than telling so instead of saying what someone felt or thought share the exact words of that moment let their words their interactions reveal that emotion example before he was angry with me after that moment he snapped are you kidding me you said you'd be here on time and now look oh man everything is ruined through this exchange you get a sense of that character's anger without explicitly saying it second technique show through action actions speak louder than words what a character does reveals much more about their feelings and intentions than simply stating them use physical movements and behaviors to convey that emotion and tension example before she was nervous after she kept fidgeting with her ring twisting it around her finger taking it off just looking at that clock every few seconds those actions con evade the nervousness much more effectively than just saying oh she was nervous third technique show through metaphors and another great way to show rather than tell is through metaphors analogies and comparisons this can help convey the emotions in a much more engaging much more creative way example before the kids were excited after the kids excitement was like this Wildfire spreading as they chattered and jumped with enthusiasm now that comparison helps the audience feel the energy in the room by showing instead of telling you allow your audience to experience the story firsthand as if it was happening to them the more you show the more immersive your storytelling is going to be but hey that next lesson is actually a lesson I wish I had learned right when I started on this journey lesson number five build a story bank for my book public speaking with confidence I asked the 2019 world champion of public speaking Aaron Bly hey uh Aaron how do you prepare for your speech his response was simple but blew my mind he said I have a story file where I not done anything that could be slightly more interesting once I'm invited to give that speech well then I'll just review my entries and I'll look for a story that could potentially work with that audience sure your ambition may not be to be the next world champion of public speaking but I'd encourage you to do the same build a story bank if you rely on your memory alone to remember those stories your stories will start slipping away that's exactly what happened to me before I used to forget most of my stories that all changed only about 4 years ago when I started my story bank now the story bank is this dedicated place where I record and categorize all of my stories sure it takes me a few minutes to document those stories but the payoff it's enormous today my story Bank holds I think around 141 stories still counting now the incredible thing is that I can use those stories for the rest of my life they're there for me whenever I need them whether I'm delivering a speech engaging in a meeting or just telling a story in front of friends so what should you capture in your story bank now I try to keep it pretty simple simple and I focus on five things first a title a short title that helps you remember the story second Point that's the core message or point that you want to convey third a summary just a few bullets to help you remember the story fourth use case so the situations in which that story could be useful and then lastly rating a rating of how much you enjoy telling that story or also how much uh your audience likes your story now you might be wondering um look where should I store all of these stories now the answer is wherever works best for you I use notion because I can then access it while traveling and I can update it from anywhere but it doesn't really matter if you use Google Docs Evernote notion or even a physical Journey but to make it even easier for you I've created a template of my story bank which I'll link in the description below that way you don't have to spend hours building a story Bank from scratch now a story bank is like having a saving account for your stories each time you add a story you're investing in your ability to tell more impactful stories the more stories you have in your story Bank the more you'll be prepared to inspire connect and entertain others now at first that story Bank might still be a little bit empty but that's where the next lesson comes in super handy lesson number six find magic in the mundane when I started on my storytelling journey I thought those great great stories are big stories like the T type of stories like the time I almost died climbing in Rio de Janeiro or the time I met God while doing some while participating in some crazy iwasa ceremony in the Amazon now after studying some of the best storytellers out there I realized that that actually wasn't the case in fact it's often not recommended to tell these big stories no why not because those stories are not relatable storytelling is about about building a connection when you share the story about this extreme event you're not building a connection you're pushing the audience away it's too far to remove from everyday life the best storytellers know this and they focus instead on these smaller moments but the difference is that they tell these small moments so skillfully that they almost appear as this extraordinary event so how can you spot those small moments there is an exercise ex called homework for Life by Matthew dicks now it is the only exercise I've been doing every single day for 4 years now and if you take anything away from today let it be this here's how it works at the end of each day take a moment and ask yourself H if I had to tell a story from today what would it be H you're not looking for something huge just a small act of kindness funny conversation or even that small thing that annoyed you anything that touched your hard now once you have that moment write down the date and that story worthy moment for example today was August 22 and my story worthy moment was feeling proud after cooking Curry for dinner now just quick context that was a huge moment for me because I haven't cooked in like 14 months I usually just order or eat outside so I felt really like this grownup today um well anyway probably sharing a little bit too much information here probably thinking what a weirdo right now anyhow what about you what was your story worthy moment today let me know in the comments now what's in it for you at first your entries might not seem overly special they may look something like oh I really enjoyed this peanut butter sandwich this morning or I took the bus to work but over time you start to notice more and more of those storyworthy moments you'll realize that your life is actually full of stories you just got to spot T them if you stick to that exercise just for a few weeks you'll soon have this suitcase of stories ready to share because those small moments that's where really the best stories are often hiding but let's say you do this for a while but how can you then actually start sharing these mini moments with the world here's where the next lesson comes in lesson number seven share tiny stories and even though I knew how to tell stories it took me actually quite a while to actually sh share them I just couldn't figure out when and where to drop a story most of the times I only realized said hours and hours later I was like ah Phillip you're so stupid you could have used the story in that moment now that only changed when I developed one simple habit instead of waiting for the perfect moment to tell this big story I started telling these tiny stories in one specific situation whenever someone asks me how are you before I'd give this hual bar answer I would say something like oh good thanks or oh yeah great finally the sun is out but after this change I began sharing a tiny story instead example if someone were to ask me today how are you I'd respond like this I'm good actually today I feel like such a grownup today uh I cooked vegetable curry and I know this sounds like nothing but for me it was huge I hadn't cooked in like 14 months usually I just order but today some I felt like it is time to be an adult anyway what about you when was the last time that you tried something new and how was that for you that's it a tiny story that shares a little bit more about me as a person so what kind of things can you actually say when someone asks you how are you now I try to respond with anything that is more engaging than weather or traffic that could be maybe has there been something interesting that has happened to you may have you picked up this new skill that is interesting to share or is there even this small thing that annoyed you but it's still kind of funny to share now you might be wondering hey um isn't this super awkward like to share something unsolicited like no one ask for that absolutely yeah it's super weird at the beginning but what I can tell you now after using those stories hundreds and hundreds of times it's absolutely worth it try it out gather your own data points not only will you become this better Storyteller but you'll also spark more meaningful conversations with co-workers friends and even strangers but hey let's now move into the next lesson that lesson that is that is a must have in any story next lesson build anticipation imagine you're super hungry and you just ordered a meal from your favorite restaurant you can't wait for the food to arrive every minute you check your phone you look for the delivery guys only 10 minutes away you sit there and you're like so excited you're like oo I can't wait for the food to arrive when we arrive now that sensation of waiting craving and desire that is what dopamin creates you want to create that same sensation for your audience when telling your story well not that you want your audience to think of food you want them to be on the edges of their seats dying to find out what happens next so how do you build anticipation first sell your story before you go into your story say a sentence to get your listeners excited about the story something that immedately pequs their interest and makes them want to hear the rest of the story example just yesterday I had an experience that completely changed my outlook on life or two weeks ago I had the worst meeting of my life second drop mini cliffhanger now hooking them at the start is good but don't just hook them there try to insert these mini Cliff hangers throughout your story example just when I thought that I had everything under control my phone rang with a message that made my heart stop as I walked down the alley I heard some footsteps behind me but when I turned around no one was there so try to include a few hooks throughout your entire story now what happens if you don't hook them well your listeners will then just look for other cheap sources of dopamin avoid that by including a few sentences that raise the anticipation next lesson bring your characters to life just last week I watch Star Wars Episode 2 for I think the fifth time now it's so freaking good uh anyway at one point like in pretty much every Star Wars dozens of Stormtroopers were killed and for those of you who haven't watched Star Wars before Stormtroopers they're the bad guys now as I sat on my couch seeing all these bodies of the Stormtroopers pile up I noticed um that I was feeling happy relieved I somehow didn't feel any sympathy whatsoever for the Stormtroopers now why is that one reason could be that I'm a very troubled person that yeah I have a lot of problems that could be one reason but the more likely reason is that I don't know anything about the Stormtroopers they're these faceless nameless creatures I don't know anything about for Star Wars it makes sense because they don't want us to sympathize with the bad guys but for our stories often times we don't share anything about the main character that makes our audience care so how can you avoid that how can you bring your characters to life first describe the physical characteristics you can describe the character's appearance like clothing body type or even Gadgets in any way that makes it more memorable give the details that really stick to your audience's mind example she had this bright infectious smile that just could light up any room also her curly hair looked like she just stepped out of this wind tunnel second reveal their quirks and traits now you can share the unique traits or habits that make your character stand out and feel real example he had a habit that he couldn't start his day without making sure that every item on his desk was perfectly aligned and third share their dreams and fears show what drives the character and what they're afraid of now that adds depth and makes your audience empathize cheer for them example her biggest dream was to open this small bakery and really bring joy to her community but her fear of failing just capture her from taking that plunge when you bring your character to life your audience will connect with them and care about their Journey so remember don't be a stormtrooper let's now go to the next lesson that lesson is probably the one that is the easiest to make any story more interesting lesson number 10 make it emotional quickly think about a childhood memory can be any memory that pops to your mind maybe it was this birthday party party maybe it was a family holiday or maybe it was this school performance now how old were you at that time and also what did you feel in that moment also why do you think you remember that moment I tell you why it's because of the emotions you felt in that moment these can be pleasurable emotions like happy or excited or painful emotions like fear and sadness now compare that with how much you remember from let's say a meeting you had a week ago or a that encounter with a friend a week ago you probably forgot 99% of what you talked about in that meeting if you want to connect to your listeners and be remembered almost years and years down the line you've got to tell a story that touches them emotionally so how can you infuse emotions into your story there are two techniques that I love more than anything else first technique share the thoughts let us know what the character is thinking in that crucial moment of the story what are the hopes the dreams the fears the plans that are going on in the character's mind example before I was beating myself up over gaining another 10 lb after I thought I'm useless why is it so hard for me to just eat like a normal person I don't even have the willpower to go one day without sugar second show the emotions show the emotions rather than just telling the emotions show us what the emotion looks like on the body on the face when experiencing that emotion example before I was stressed about the deadline after my chest felt tight thinking about that deadline was like this weight pressing me down really hard to breathe by sharing the thoughts and showing the emotions your audience will find it much easier to visualize feel but also to remember your story let me now share another lesson and I've seen some very average stories land incredibly well only because of that lesson number 11 act out key moments now how do you use your voice your body your emotions to tell you a story well there are different styles in this one some use it very little they rely 100% on their voice or on their story others use them quite a lot as you can probably see I like to use my voice and my body to bring the story to life I'm acting out parts of my story but hey look I'm not a professional actor and your PR neither but that does mean that we cannot use some of their techniques to bring our stories to life now there are three techniques that are pretty easy that you can try out in your next story first technique show in action if you say I B down to pick up that orange well actually bend down and pick up that orange and hold that imaginary Orange in your hand or if you say well I walk across the hall and open the door well then take a few steps pretend to open that door and go inside show the action don't just describe it second technique show reactions now in life something happens we react whether it's raising our voice when we get angry or whether laughing when we're happy or speaking very softly when we're sad we react but somehow when we tell our stories we suppress those reactions to appear more professional don't do that show the reactions relive the emotions if the moment was joyful well let the joy come through in your expression and in your tone if if the moment was sad well then don't be afraid to show that sadness show the reaction third technique impersonate a character now most stories involve more than one person and dialogue as you know is a great way to make any Story come alive now when you include a conversation in your story try to impersonate the other character involved for example if you're sharing a conversation you had with your mom well then impersonate your mom while sharing the dialogue give your audience a sense of who she is mimic her tone of voice her posture her body language capture her personality example in that moment my mom said Phillip why did you do that you had one job and that was to take care of the dog you couldn't even do that I know it may feel awkward at first to act out parts of your story but trust me doing so makes your story much more Vivid it much more compelling give it a try lesson number 12 break expectations imagine you lived on the countryside and every day you drive to work along the way you see bunch of fields there cows grazing but you don't even recognize that you're just on autopilot but on this one day same route you look to the left and you're like whoa oh that's a pink cow crazy a pink cow I've never seen a pink cow in my life you arrive at work and you tell everyone about that pink cow you remember that pink cow for the rest of your life this is the essence of breaking expectations we as humans we are great at spotting patterns but as soon as we think that something is predictable we tune out the moment your audience knows where the story is going they'll start thinking about other stuff they won't be there with you what should I watch tonight Modern Family the office hm to capture their attention and to keep it you want to share something that your audience didn't see coming that can be an unusual activity an unusual event or an unusual reaction anything that breaks that pattern of what is expected let me give you an example of a story that has a few major moments of surprise now this story comes from clothing retailer Nordstrom and is used to show what the company really stands for 1978 Craig troun was working as a store associate at the Nordstrom in Fairbanks Alaska and on this one day Craig looked at the entrance and saw something super weird there was this man rolling in a pair of tires into the store I'm confused Craig went up to the guy and asked uh excuse me sir can I help you and the guy said yeah yeah I wanted to return these tires Craig said uh sir you know that we're clothing retailer we don't sell any tires it turned out that he had bought the tires from the previous tenant of that same building now at first Craig didn't know what to do with that guy should he just sent that guy back but then he decided to do what felt right he called the local tire agency to get an estimate of the value of the tirus he then took in the tarus and gave a refund he gave a refund for a product that nordom didn't even have now that's what it means to put the customer first did you notice which moment of the story went into a different direction than You' expected there was this one moment where this customer rolled a pair of tires into the store that's weird right we don't see that that often the second moment was when Craig decided to give a refund for a product that they didn't even have also massively surprising so try to incorporate a few unexpected elements twists and resolutions to make your story Unforgettable lesson number 13 turn up the heat imagine watching Who Wants To Be A Millionaire now at the beginning of the show the stakes are still quite low the contestant well they can earn few hundred dollars but that's it but then as the show progresses the stakes get much higher each correct answer brings the contestant closer to that massive million dooll prize but to make it even harder the time to respond goes down to 15 seconds at one point the host ask the contestant what would they do with all the money the contestant responds and says I'm going to buy my dad a house to take him off the street the audience now is dying to know if she'll secure this lifechanging price and make her dream a reality now that is a prime example of raising the stakes raising the stakes means increasing what is at risk in your story share the big thing that the character can win or lose in that specific situation raising the stakes is like turning up that heat in your story the higher the stakes the more intense and more engaging your story becomes so how do you raise the stakes in your story there are three simple ways First share the character's goals share what your main character wants to achieve what are their hopes their dreams their plans but hey don't just share any shallow goals share emotional goals share really what matters to that character example I wanted to finish that Marathon to prove to myself that I can do anything in life life that I don't need to play it low anymore second show impact on others you can increase the stakes even more by showing how other people are affected by the hero's actions and what will happen to them if that hero succeeds or also fails right example I got to get this job if I don't get it I won't have the money to send my daughter to college she relies on me and third introduce time pressure now you can make any story Meely more interesting add a deadline or a time limit to increase the urgency and to make it even ju here example I had 2 hours to prepare this 30 slide presentation that would be presented to the board of directors now when you show what is at risk your audience will care much more about the outcome and they will become invested in your characters and also in the journey that they're on but let's now go into a lesson that took me quite some time to find out that lesson can actually make or break any story lesson number 14 show the change during my MBA at Columbia University I had this one friend who was a wonderful Storyteller every single time we went out he shared a story a story about a time that he got super drunk did something crazy or inappropriate man I got so wasted that I passed out in the subway it was legendary and just a few days ago I thought of him and I tried to remember some of his stories to my surprise I couldn't remember a single one of them at first I couldn't understand why I didn't remember them because they were entertaining but then I realized why because his stories didn't have any element of change he was like oh I was that person before did this crazy stuff and I was that same person after no change no transformation no growth just the same old him change is the difference between a story that people forget and a story that sticks to create a story that resonates you need to show some sort of transformation think about it in almost every movie or book you love the main character under go some sort of change they start out in one way and they end up completely different take the movie Avatar for example at the start Jake s is this disabled Marine who feels lost and once meaning in life but then he changes into this Brave leader who loves and protects Pandora's nature for your story show some sort of change or transformation if for example if you were out of shape well now you're running a marathon if you hated your sister now your best friends or if you were terrified of public speaking well now you love being on stage show the change but hey so far we've only talked about the stuff to add to your story but let's now go into to a lesson that makes sure that whatever you say lands really well lesson number 15 keep it simple for my book The Story selling method I wanted to understand what language do the best storytellers use and for that I analyzed 97 stories now after listening to each one of the stories I gave each story a score from 1 to 10 now one being ah this is a terrible story to 10 oh I freaking love this story this is so good after that I transcribed each one of the stories and I put the transcript into a readability tool and what I found blew my mind the highest rated stories could be understood by a fifth grader that is someone that is 11 or maybe 12 years old great stories don't try to be too fancy or too intellectual they focus on connecting to Their audience the simpler your language the easier it is for your audience to connect to story short and clear sentences they stick complex and to flowery sentences not so much so how can you simplify your stories first break down long sentences instead of having this one gigantic sentence use two or three shorter ones before as I was walking down the street feeling the brisk Autumn air on my face I couldn't help but contemplate about the time I spent In America which was an unforgettable experience that truly shaped who I am today after as I walked down the street I felt this cool air on my face reminded me of my time in America an experience that really changed me forever second avoid jargon or fancy words now try to use everyday language even if you use stories in business don't use too complicated words I know we're constantly trying to look and sound smarter than we really are but don't do that in your story use everyday language before we need to synergize our methodologies to achieve optimal efficiency after we need to work together to get better results third HD conversational share your story as if you're talking to your best friend it doesn't matter if you're sharing a story with one person or on a stage in front of hundreds of people before on considering the extent of possibilities I came to the conclusion that the most efficacious route forward was to proceed with caution after after thinking about it I realized that the best thing to do was to take it slow if you want to check whether your story is simple enough well just copy the text that you've written on your story and put it into a free readability tool I'll actually include the link to my favorite readability tool in the description below now that software or that tool will tell you exactly what grade level your story is what I suggest aim for grade level that can be understood by fifth grader maybe sixth grader or maybe seventh grader but not much more than that keep it simple and remember Simplicity it's not about dumping down your story it's about making sure that your message is clear and accessible to really everyone lesson number 16 uncover forgotten stories when I first began my storytelling journey I sat down and I tried to count how many stories I had after 2 hours I came up with six stories for my entire life and I was proud I thought wow Phillip well done you're such a wonderful Storyteller now I realize that that number could be much higher if you're around let's say 20 years old you probably have hundreds of stories if you're in your 30s or 40s you will have thousands of stories that you could potentially use and no you don't need to have the craziest life for that the reason you might not see these stories yet is either because you've forgotten about them or your memory doesn't save them as a story we're about to change that think of yourself as as an archaeologist but instead of digging out these dinosaur bones we're digging here for past memories that could be turned into a story the most effective way to uncover your hidden memories from the past is through a practice called stream of Consciousness journaling now how does it work first choose a prompt start by picking a prompt to help you spark your ideas and get your thoughts flowing PRS can be based on locations themes like travel Sports relationships or specific experiences now some examples could be the courageous leap for example these can be these moments when you faced a major Challenge and you overcame it or the special encounter these could be these Brief Encounters that you had with a stranger or an acquaintance but that really left an impact on you or nature simp syy in which you reflect on a very memorable experience you had in nature whether that was that challenging hike or a romantic day at the beach you know what I'll actually include my top 10 prompts in the description below so that you can get started straight away but for now I would say just pick one of them second set a timer to avoid feeling overwhelmed start with a short time frame set your timer for maybe like 5 minutes that's about it you can then adjust that frame the more comfortable you feel with that exercise third start writing once you've set the timer begin writing down any memories that come to your mind anything related to that prompt now the key here is to just keep writing don't stop don't edit don't second guess just keep writing let your thoughts flow freely even if they seem random stupid or all over the place stream of Consciousness journaling is not about quality but about quantity don't worry if your ideas are all over the place or if you think that this is silly just keep going four identify potential stories and when the timer is up you then look to your sheet and you think hm is there any memory or any story that stands out anything that is particularly interesting entertaining or maybe emotional well that could be then the seat for your next Story by practicing stream of Consciousness journaling just a few times you will uncover more and more of those meaning ful moments from your past these could then become the stories that you tell in casual conversations at work or even on stage trust me you've got way more stories than you think you just need to start digging all right on to the next lesson which is I think already quite Advanced lesson lesson number 17 avoid generic language now ever noticed how some stories just come alive While others just fall flat and one Secret to making your storytelling more Vivid more engaging is to use specific descriptive words instead of those generic ones now imagine two scenarios scenario one I was driving in my car down the highway now what does it really tell us how much right you know that I drive a car and that I use the highway that's it but you don't get a sense of who I am as a person right scenario 2 I was driving 120 mph down the German Autobon in my 10-year-old Toyota Prius now this tells you so much more gives you some indications that maybe I'm a risk taker right driving so fast on the Autobon shows you that I like the thrill or the adventure or maybe also that I'm a little bit cheap right driving this old Toyota Prius might indicate that maybe I don't have a lot of money or maybe I choose practicality over luxury so it shows you much more about me as a character so how can you make your details pop first replace generic words generic I was at a party specific I was at this Halloween party surrounded by superheroes and with this DJ blasting 80s hits second add unique details to the character generic she was really smart specific she was the kind of person who could solve the Rubik's Cube in just under minute and really explain quantum physics over coffee third use metaphors generic it was strong specific that guy was strong as a bull lifting those weights as if they were feathers but when you replace that generic text through more specific details make sure that your sentences are not much longer that you actually use it strategically because if everything is just details details details it can be overwhelming as well but yeah if you just sprinkle a few of those details into your story it will transform that story so most of the lessons we focus on techniques to pretty much enhance your story but there are a few lessons that will help you feel also excited to deliver those stories to really tell these stories lesson 18 memorize smme when you're telling a story the last thing you want is to sound like this robot resigning Lines by Lines by from memory now a story that is too rehearsed can often come off as too stiff and unnatural but I guess at the same time you also don't want to stumble through your story searching for the words ah what I want to say here getting lost that's also not good right so how do you find the balance instead of memorizing your entire story word for word focus on memorizing smme for those of you in business know we're not talking about small and mediumsized Enterprises here we're talking about start scenes and end first memorize your start think of the best speeches or stories that you've ever heard they start with that bang whether it's an action it's that question or that Cliffhanger they start with a bang the start of your story is like that Spotlight that grabs everyone's attention it sets the tone pequs curiosity and gives your listeners a reason to keep paying attention now as it's so crucial I'd suggest to memorize the first few sentences in Your Story by Heart by knowing those opening lines really inside out you can then launch into your story with full confidence second memorize moments now that we've got the opening down let's now talk about the middle the the heart of your story this is where memorizing every single word is not really necessary instead what you want to do is memorize the key moments or scenes of your story think of the moments like the main building blocks those are the places where the action takes place maybe the decisions that are made or the emotions that were felt each moment is like a snapshot a clear mental image of that place or that moment where something important takes place for example um one moment could be that you're in front of your manager's door and you're knocking at the door another moment could be you're in the office and your manager telling you about this unexpected project then third moment could be in the elevator Crying by memorizing or visualizing those scenes you'll naturally remember what happens in each part of the story three memorize your end I know people usually don't really like to think about the end of their story they spend their entire time on the opening or the body that's it that's a missed opportunity the end will be this last impression that people have of your story this is where you drive from your takeaway this is where you give your audience something to to to reflect upon that's why I suggest to memorize the end or closing of your story really also hard by heart CU that's what people will remember so use smme so start moments and end to memorize your story that way it will feel alive natural and real all right the next lesson that one it's a crazy crazy hack I wish I had discovered much earlier lesson number 19 rehearse with a tutor practicing your stories a couple of times two to three times is usually enough to get comfortable but once you feel comfortable it's then important to share that story also with someone else to get feedback at first I asked my friends and family if they could listen to my stories this worked well for sometimes but after asking my best friend for like I think the seventh time I started to feel a little bit awkward I felt like he'd probably do something and else that listen to my stories every single week so I started looking for a storytelling coach but that's really when I hit the wall good storytelling coaches they're expensive like really expensive decent one cost at least $200 an hour and excellent ones can charge thousands but that's when I discovered something that completely transformed my storytelling journey I hired an English language tutor but hold on there there's a Twist I didn't use that shooter for English lessons I use them to practice storytelling there are these language platforms like prle or itaki where you can find private English tutors for as little as $3 an hour in these 1hour sessions I then share two to three stories with their tutor and I asked them for feedback now it doesn't really matter that they're not professional storytelling coaches doesn't matter they can still tell me how they like the story whether they got bored somewhere and how the story made them feel after then sharing a few stories I use that remaining time to improvise a few stories on the spot now this is really a crazy hack that has helped me make the biggest leap as a Storyteller all right are you ready for the last lesson of this video can I get a drum roll please po last lesson commit to a big goal I owe much of My Success to a simple Mantra commit now figured out later let me share how I discovered this approach in November 2021 I had this crazy idea I wanted to try out to do standup comedy back then I'd never read a book on Comedy or never taken any course but I didn't let that stop me I searched for open m nights here in Amsterdam found one and signed up to be a comedian just to be clear I knew nothing about comedy but I thought I I I'll figure it out fast forward forward 3 weeks I'm standing in front of 180 people delivering my first ever standup comedy routine it was hands down the most difficult moment most terrifying moment of my entire life my legs were just shaking uncontrollably the entire time I wish I could say that I absolutely crushed it but no that just wouldn't be true I wasn't terrible but I definitely wasn't amazing either but actually that didn't matter what really mattered is how much I learned those three weeks of preparation taught me more about comedy than in a year of passive learning the key is this the biggest growth happens when you go after something that seems far beyond your current abilities now what I did in comedy you can do with storytelling now most major cities today have storytelling open might nights in the US the moth and risk are two of the most well-known storytelling open might nights go to their website submit an application to tell a story and then figure out the rest later or I guess if there aren't any storytelling nights in your city well ask your manager or your boss if you can share a story in your next team meeting or if that is not an option ask a friend or a family member if you can tell a story at the next celebration yes it will feel terrifying and yes you might not be ready but the minute you commit to that date you'll do whatever it takes to nail the story and to mostly avoid that embarrassing situation and even if you messed up well that by itself would be a wonderful learning and also a great story that you can tell in the future that's it those are my 20 lessons from 5 years of Storytelling actually let me know in the comments which lesson was your favorite today we went deep into storytelling but when you speak in front of friends when you give a presentation or often times when you record a video they're also few other public speaking techniques that you need to master and for that you may want to check out this next video in which I'll give you some of my favorite public speaking techniques enjoy

----
5 Storytelling Techniques to Tell Insanely Good Stories
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swU_BuUfdLM
I've analyzed H4 speakers to find out what techniques they use to tell these insanely good stories and I found their five techniques that they use the most so to show you those techniques in action we'll pick a pretty average story but every time we'll be adding one technique and what you realize is by applying those techniques you can turn any average moment into the most incredible story let's start with the Baseline story David had an exam coming up and he planned to study all all day but when he started his phone kept buzzing with notifications because of the distractions he couldn't get any work done he told his friend about this and his friend suggested an app to block the distractions in the next study session David used the app managed to study everything took the exam and got the best grade he'd ever received now that was a pretty average story right now let's go into the real interesting stuff and transform that story First Take technique raising questions the best storytellers raise questions in their listener's mind they don't immediately disclose everything on the spot instead they tease what is about to come through questions and hints the moment that mystery or that doubt is out the listeners want to know the answer let's go back to David's example this time with raising questions on that day David discovered a tool that changed his life forever he had an exam coming up and planed to study all day but when he started his phone kept buzzing with notifications because of the distractions he couldn't really get any work done but right in that moment his friend stepped in to save the day his friend suggested an app to block the distractions in the next study session he used that app now that app has been one of the best things that could have ever happened to him he managed to study everything took the exam and got the best grade he ever received each one of those sentences made you wonder wait what is that tool that changed David's life how did that friend save that day and why is that app the best thing that could have ever happened to him now try to include a few sentences in your story that make your listeners wonder how the story continues second technique Stakes a simple way to make your listeners care for your story is to share the stakes what can that char character win or lose in that specific situation why does the character care so much about reaching that goal or avoiding that problem example David had an exam coming up and planned to study all day now that exam would decide if he would be allowed to study medicine and reach his dream of becoming a doctor but when he started his phone just kept buzzing with notifications because of the distractions he pretty much couldn't get any work done he started to worry he knew that if things didn't change he'd never get into Medical School even worse he might have to study something like law or accounting he told his friend about this and his friend suggested an app to block the distractions in the next study session David used that app he managed to study everything took the exam and got the best grade he ever received by sharing the stakes your listeners will care much more for your story they'll be there on the sideline cheering for your character wanting to know how the story continues but let me now share a technique that I see in almost every single story out there third technique outer dialogue often your stories will have more than one character maybe there's someone that has helped you maybe there's someone that really annoyed you maybe there is someone that loved working with you now you can share some of the dialogue of that specific moment to bring your story to life now what are the exact words what are the quotes of that specific specific moment example David had an exam coming up and planned to study all day but when he started his phone just kept buzzing with notifications because of the distractions he couldn't get any work done now after complaining to his friend Sarah she interrupted him and said stop right there I know exactly what you need what you need is an app to block the distractions it's so freaking powerful now in the next study session David used that app he managed to study everything and took the exam a few days later he got the results and immedately called his friend oh Sarah you're not going to believe it I got an A+ thank you so much for the tip this is really the best day of my life now you can share a full-blown conversation showing the dialogue of both of the characters or just one exclamation by one person that's really up to you the key is to use concise and catchy language look I I love autod dialog because it's simple but very powerful but there's not only the outer dialogue but there's also the inner dialogue fourth technique inner dialogue the best stories are emotional they make us cry love and Inspire us the easiest way to make your story more emotional is to share the character's thoughts what was that character thinking in that crucial moment of the story what were the hopes the goals the dreams the fears share some of the thoughts example David had an exam coming up and plan to study all day he thought all right today the day today I will crush it I'll be glued to my seat I'll be crushing through these pages but when he started his phone just kept buzzing with notifications because of the distractions he couldn't get any work done immediately he started blaming himself thinking what's wrong with you you the entire day and you just wasted it man like that you'll definitely fail the exam he told his friend about this and his friend suggested an app to block the distractions in the next study session David used that app he managed to study everything took the exam and get the best grade he ever received after that he thought wow this is so cool can't believe that I got an A+ and my mom is going to be so proud I know when we speak we often tried to sound super smart super sophisticated but please don't do that when sharing the thought thoughts give us the raw unfiltered thoughts inner dialogue is probably the technique that I use the most in my stories but there is one last technique that will make your story even more emotional fifth technique showing emotions you already know that emotions are very important for storytelling but the problem is that most people tell the emotion they say something like she's happy she's sad she's proud now words like that aren't visual we P picture what it looks like to be disappointed or proud it's kind of abstract so instead of telling the emotion show the emotion how does the body the face change when experiencing the emotion of the story example David stood in front of the library biting his bottom lip he an exam coming up and he planned to study all day but when he started his phone just kept buzzing with notifications because of those distractions he couldn't get any work done at All Hiding his face in his hand he told his friend about this his friend suggested an app to block the distractions immediately David's face lit up Sparkle in his eyes that could actually work in the next study session David used that app he managed to study everything took the exam and got the best grade he ever received big smile on his face Standing Tall and just celebrating that huge huge moment so what words can you use to describe the emotions you can just ask yourself hey how do I react physically when I'm experiencing a certain emotion what happens to my body to my face when I'm sad when I'm nervous when I'm happy or if that is a little bit too tough for you ask yourself how does my friend how does my mother how does my partner physically react when experiencing a certain emotion that's it if you sprinkle one two or maybe even three of the five techniques your stories will change drastically now today we talked about storytelling techniques but there are few other areas that you may want to master like story structure or story types for that you may want to check out this next video in which I share how to tell better stories than 99% of the people enjoy

----
How To Tell Better Stories Than 99% Of People (5 Steps)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=55nHL8y-UWg
the most successful speakers creators and leaders know how to tell insanely good stories and I wanted to do the same but when I started on this journey I quickly ran into three problems first I didn't know what stories to tell second I didn't know how to tell a story in actually an interesting way and third I just didn't feel confident to share stories and to solve these problems I interviewed for professional speakers read 41 books on storytelling and tried lots of crazy stuff on the way as part of that give Vel a five-step system on how to tell better stories than 99% of the people that system will help you have this abundance of story will help you turn any average moment into the most captivating story and to feel finally confident to share stories in any situation let's go step one structure stories when I started on my storytelling journey I had this moment that made me question how storytelling is taught 2020 I took this very expensive storytelling course here in the Netherlands and in that course they taught the hero's journey the hero's journey is that beautiful story structure consists of 17 steps and is pretty much used in any Hollywood movie like Lord of the Rings or Star Wars the structure that they teach in all these courses out there is useful for big stages but it's completely useless for the stories we tell in front of our friends or at work those casual stories should be between 1 and 2 minutes that's it in 1 to 2 minutes you don't have time to cover the 17 steps of the hero's journey once I realized that I studied all the structures out there and I tried to pull out the parts that worked really well after doing that for a few weeks I developed a structure that changed my life it consists of four steps c a r t context adversity resolution takeaway now you can think of your story structure like this card in the supermarket holds together all the awesome ingredients or elements of your story or I guess um if you're a little bit simpler like me then just remember it rhymes on fart step one context in the first step you want to give some rough context where and when does it take place who's the main character and what does that character want example it was October 2023 when I went for this big walk through cental Park in New York on that day I wanted to take some pictures for my mom whose birthday was coming up in just a few days now that could be the context who when where what boom try to set the scene in just a few sentences so that you move to the most important part of the story as quickly as possible step two adversity soon into the story it's time to introduce the adversity or the challenge that that main character faces and that can be any challenge difficult decision a physical challenge an emotional challenge another person anything as long as it's substantial to that main character example as I was walking home I reached into my pockets but then I realized my phone was missing I double checked every single pocket on my pants but still wasn't there immedia stetch to panic Fu that phone has hundreds of photos for my mom and I don't have any backups for that weeks of work just gone the challenge is the longest and also the most crucial part of any story describe the struggle show what is at stake and let the listeners know how the character feels step three resolution next let your listeners know how the character responds to that challenge what are the actions reactions decisions taking to overcome that challenge how does it turn out at the end example right at that moment someone tapped me on my shoulder turn around and I see what this jogger he asked um excuse me you seem like you're looking for something is there anything missing I said yeah I lost my phone with all the photos on it right in that moment I noticed this smile emerging from his lips he reached into his pockets and pulled out my phone and handed it to me I couldn't help but jump around his neck and just give him this big hug up to this point well that story is an interesting story but your listeners don't really know why you're sharing the story with them that's when you move into the last step of the story step four takeaway and the last step let your listeners know what you learn from that experience what did you realize what's the point of the story example what I learned from that experience is that there are honest people in this world will do the right thing but I guess also to start backing up my phone when you share that takeaway watch out not to say you should takeway or the moral of the story is why not well you'll just come across as this preacher no one likes a preacher so the better way is to frame it as what I learn from that experience is X Y and Z it's a much more subtle much more inviting way to tell the takeaway that structure has given my stories this super solid foundation I use it in all of my stories and it has really helped me tell much better stories than I'd say 30% of the people but after sharing more and more of these stories I noticed that some of my stories still didn't land too well and at that point I didn't get it like hey I have this incredible story structure why do I still keep losing people at first I didn't know but soon soon I found the answer step two enhance stories and one day I joined this free storytelling master class and even though I didn't expect too much of that class it changed the way I thought about storytelling forever now right in the first few minutes the speaker shared a story about spilling coffee over his white shirt I know sounds super boring right nothing special but the way he shared the story was beyond anything I've ever seen from the first second he hoped me into the story I was on the atch of my my seat throughout the entire story dying to find out what would happen next but it was obviously not because of the story because hey coffee over shirt not special but it was because of the techniques that he used after hearing that story I sat at my desk thinking wow this was so freaking powerful I got to find out what techniques that guy was using for 4 years I studied tons of videos books and courses to find out what makes a story great 100 pages of notes later I've boiled it down to 20 techniques that the best storytellers use I'll actually include a link to document that shows you all the 20 techniques in the description below but hey as we don't have the time to cover all the techniques in this video I'm going to share with you my three favorite techniques that I use the most if you only use those three techniques you'll tell better stories than 60% of the people out there first technique raise questions your job as a Storyteller is to make your audience want to know more they should be on the edges of their seat dying to find out how the story continues and one simple technique is to raise questions example right when I was leaving the park I realized something terrible immedately my heart started pounding against my chest in full panic mode I emptied every single pocket trying to find it only to realize it was gone each one of these sentences makes you wonder wait what is that terrible thing that you realized what are you looking for what was gone the best stories raise questions in your listener's mind so for your story think how can you anticipate the interesting stuff that is about to come you can say for example last year I had an experience that completely changed my outlook on life or yesterday I had the worst meeting of my entire life or right in that moment when I thought it cannot get any worse that's when I got an email from my manager anticipate what is about to come second technique share the thoughts the best stories take us on this emotional roller coaster the simplest way to make any story more emotional is to share the character's thoughts what was that character thinking in that crucial moment of the story what were the hopes the goals the plans the fears in that specific moment example I thought shoot weeks of Works memories and hundreds of photos gone my mom will be so disappointed why do I keep losing things I know when we speak we often try to sound super intelligent super sophisticated but don't do that when sharing the thoughts give us the raw unfiltered thought that will make it much more interesting third technique share the dialogue often our stories will have more than one character maybe there's this one person that helped you maybe there's this one person that really pissed you off maybe there's this customer that you helped whoever it is now you can bring your story to Life by sharing some of the dialogue of that crucial moment what were the exact words that one of the characters said in that crucial moment of the story example right in that moment I feel a tap on my shoulder I turn around and it's this jogger he says uh excuse me are you looking for something I said yes I lost my phone it has all its photos on it and it's gone well um is it an iPhone I said yes it's an iPhone with a cheeky smile he reaches into his pocket and he pulls out my phone you can share a full-blown conversation going back and forth or you can just have one exclamation by one of the characters that's up to you the key is to use this very concise and catchy language when I started using those three techniques A Whole New World opened up for me I started sharing stories really anywhere I could some in front of my friends some in front of my co-workers and even sometimes on stage but after a few weeks I started running into a problem I realized that I don't have any more interesting stories that I could share I already recycled my three stories a few times now how can I have more interesting stories at first I didn't have the answer I just thought that hey I need to have a crazier more adventurous life I only found the answer once I discovered one book step three find Stories the book that has helped me have this abundance of stories is called story worthy by Matthew dicks it's this one wonderful book with lots of good nuggets but there were two exercises that have helped me build this story library of hundreds of stories first exercise first best last worst that first exercise helped me to remember these stories that I had long forgotten about now for that I take out a piece of paper and I draw five columns in the First Column I put prompt in the second column I put first then last then best and then worst after that I fill in the prompts prompts can be anything that triggers a memory gift travel job uh Book car hobby injury anything that triggers a memory let's say that my prom was gift I then asked myself hm what was my first gift a yeah it was that chainsaw that I got when I was like 3 years old I then put chainsaw below that now then I go to the next question what was my last gift H that was probably that weighted blanket I got for my birthday to sleep better and then put waed blanket then I go to the next question what was my best gift oh yes that was definitely that train ticket to Spain and then I go into the last one what was my worst gift H oh yes that was that Peppermill I got for my best friends for my 30th birthday you guys for that now at this point I don't Fletch out any story yet I just note down one or two words that help me remember that story I then do the same thing for the next prompt once I've then done that exercise for a few prompts I then review my entries and I ask myself do any of these memories Stand Out is is there maybe anything that is a little bit more entertaining a little bit more emotional or maybe more interesting if yes well that's my story actually to save you time creating that table I'll include a template with my favorite prompts in the description below first last best worse is this super fun way to uncover these stories that you've long forgotten from the past but hey there's another exercise to spot stories in the present moment right in the moment when they emerge the exercise I'm about to share is actually the only exercise I've done consistently every single day for 3 years now second exercise homework for Life homework for life is an exercise to help you spot your story worthy moments every single day now how does it work at the end of each day I take a moment and I ask myself hm if I had to tell a story from today what would it be what would be that one moment that stood out the one moment that touched my heart maybe it was that funny conversation maybe some small thing that annointed me or maybe some realization and now once I have that moment I not down that date and that story worthy moment example today is August 6 and my story worthy moment was feeling grateful after my 9 km run through the park without knee pain now just as context this was huge for me because I've had stopped running for like 7 years after an injury on my knees so big moment now that was my story worthy moment um actually I love to hear from you what was your story worthy moment from today let me know in the comments so what happened once I started doing that exercise more and more at first my entries were quite boring and rather unspecific actually one of them was oh today I enjoyed my peanut butter sandwich but after a few weeks I started to notice more and more meaningful moments I now have minimum one super interesting moment every week that could be turned to this incredible story now you can do the math right if just one out of seven moments per week is a bit more interesting that's 52 stories per year that's 156 stories in 3 years Isn't that cool but to turn those moments into story I do some extra work I take that moment craft a story run that moment with the structure and the elements you learned and then put it into my story Bank a story bank is this central place where I capture classify and remember my stories now what do I capture in there I try to keep it pretty simple so check five things I capture the title the point of the story a summary use case and a rating that's it I try to keep it as simple as possible I personally like to save my stories in oce so that I can access them anytime when I'm also traveling but hey you can use really any tool that works for you if it's Google Docs notion or even a journal it doesn't matter pick the tool that is the easiest for you that causes the least friction but actually let me link a template of my story Bank in the description below so that you don't have to waste hours and hours creating one yourself I started my story Bank around 4 years ago and every time I encounter a new story I keep adding it to that story Bank sure hey it takes me a few minutes to put that in my story bank but I'm happy to spend that time because I know that I'll be able to use that story for really the rest of my life if you use that structure we talked about and you sprinkle in some of the techniques you just learned and then actually save it in your story bag you be a better Storyteller than 80% of the people out there but hey to unlock this this last 20% and to become and to be part of this top 1% of storytellers there are two more steps that you need to master step four practice stories when I started practicing my stories I rehearsed in front of a mirror because that's pretty much what everyone told me but soon I realized that that was terrible advice now why because it's completely unnatural to see yourself while speaking the only thing that happened was that I got more self conscious about how I looked I was like huh wait a second do do I always look that tired huh really I didn't know that I had wrinkles up here Sho rehearsing in front of a mirror is not helpful I found it much more helpful to rehearse my stories while speaking out loud in my room often I pick random objects in my room as my imaginary audience for example my water bottle is one person then a photo frame is another person then maybe my dog is another person as my imaginary audience so what I do then I share my story and I try to hold deliberate eye contact with each one of the objects for a few seconds I usually try to rehearse my stories two to three times before I shareed with an actual audience now two to three times is enough to get comfortable with the story but not really enough to rehearse every single word of the story but once I've rehearsed then a few times I then try to share the story with someone I know to get feedback at first I asked my friends and family if I could share my stories they obviously agreed because they like me um but after some time I started to feel more and more Awkward about it I was like um man I don't know whether I can ask my best friend I've already asked him seven times to listen to my stories pretty boring him to death I thought of getting a storytelling coach but I quickly realized that those coaches were way too expensive good ones cost $200 an hour excellent ones can cost up to1 thousand an hour but that's when I discovered something that has helped me make the biggest jump as a Storyteller I get an English language tutor no hold on I didn't use that tutor for English instead I use that tutor to work on my storytelling skills there are platforms like prle or italki where you can have a private English tutor for as little as $3 an hour in these 1hour sessions I share two to three stories and I ask the tutor to give me feedback it doesn't matter that those tutors are not storytelling coaches they can still tell me how they like the stories where they got bored and how the story made them feel after sharing two or three stories I then usually try to use the rest of the time to improvise a few stories on the spot now that is a crazy heck meeting with the tutor once a week for a few weeks has been an absolute game changer for me but hey paying someone to listen to you obviously has some limitations that's why the last step is absolutely crucial step five tell stories even though I knew how to tell stories it still took me quite some time to start telling these stories in these normal day-to-day situations I just didn't know in which situations I could tell these stories now often times I only realize that hours later I'm like ah Phillip you're so stupid you could have used that story in that one moment that only changed once I started one habit now instead of waiting for that perfect opportunity to tell a big story I started telling these small stories in these very specific situations anytime that someone asks me how are you now before I used to respond like that I used to say good how are you or ah yes finally the sun is out the sun is shining that's how I responded after I started sharing a tiny story that shows something interesting about myself example if someone were to ask me today how are you I'd respond like this I'd say I'm good actually I had this beautiful moment this morning after 2 weeks on the road I walked into my apartment hopped on my couch and just let out this big I was just so relieved to be back in my own four walls to finally be able to chill a little bit um anyway what about you when was the last time you got back from let's say a longer trip and how was that for you that's it a tiny story that tells a little bit more about me as a human now what are the things that I usually say when someone asks me how are you well usually I try to respond with anything that is more interesting than the weather or traffic maybe has there been anything interesting that has happened lately to me maybe have I picked up a new skill or is there this small thing that is a little bit annoying but still funny to share well that's the story that I share remember story worthy moment homework for life well those are the moments that you can share in that specific moment in case you're wondering isn't that super awkward like to share a story without the other person asking absolutely at the beginning I found it super super awkward as well but what I can tell you now after sharing these stories hundreds and hundreds of time it's so worth it you'll not only improve as a Storyteller but you'll also have much more meaningful conversations with co-workers friends but also strangers once you've shared these tiny stories a few few times over a few weeks you start to feel more and more comfortable to share stories in really any situation doesn't matter whether in front of friends co-workers or on a big stage that's it if you follow the five steps you just learned you'll tell better stories than 99% of the people but hey today we touch up on a few storytelling techniques but there are a few ones that we haven't discussed for that you may want to check out my book The Story selling method or that next video in which I share my favorite storytelling techniques enjoy
